Passage number 1.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  To clarify on the release of the primary dealer survey, we’re talking about releasing just the questions, not the actual results of the survey. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think that’s okay, but others can comment.  Does anyone have any reactions they’d like to share.  [No response]  Okay.  Seeing none, why don’t we turn to the business of the meeting.  I think the best way to do this would be to turn first to Brian Sack, who will give us, as background, some markets updates, and then Steve Kamin here at the Board will talk about what’s happening in Europe as they try to address the ongoing crisis.  I’ll say a few words about calls and contacts that I’ve had, and then we’ll open up the discussion of the particular proposal.  So let me turn it over to Brian Sack for an update on markets.  Brian.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage consists of an individual providing clarification on the release of a primary dealer survey and suggesting the release of just the questions rather than the actual results. There is then a request for reactions or comments, but no one responds. The passage then moves on to discussing the plan for the meeting agenda.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 2.
 MR. KAMIN.1  As Brian has discussed, the attempt by European leaders in late October to promote a comprehensive solution to the euro-area financial crisis has largely failed, and the crisis is deepening and threatening to spill over from the European periphery to the core.  In Greece, the government collapsed two weeks ago and was replaced by a temporary caretaker government headed by former ECB Vice President Lucas Papademos.  Greece’s main opposition party has generally signed on to the fiscal reforms Greece has agreed to with the IMF and EU, but in order to repay its creditors and finance its deficit over the coming couple of years, Greece is negotiating a new €130 billion program with the IMF and EU, and this new loan is contingent on Greece’s private-sector creditors voluntarily writing down the face value of their claims on Greece’s government by 50 percent.  However, the discussions between the Greek government and its private-sector creditors on this debt restructuring have been fractious, putting the new loan package in jeopardy and adding to speculation that Greece may soon default and possibly withdraw from the euro area. If the European leaders had succeeded in putting the financial backstops in place to protect Italy, Spain, and other governments from contagion, the Greek situation would be just a sideshow with limited potential to destabilize broader markets.  However, efforts to strengthen the euro-area financial backstop have been stymied.  The October plan was to leverage the remaining €270 billion in uncommitted resources of the EFSF with private-sector funds to achieve over €1 trillion in  1 The materials used by Mr. Kamin are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). capacity.  But with outside investors showing little enthusiasm for this scheme and the EFSF itself having difficulty raising funds, it appears unlikely that the EFSF, by itself, would be able to protect Italy and Spain from a major run on their debt. In the absence of a credible backstop, investor concerns about sovereign default have begun to snowball, as Brian has described.  In Italy, soaring borrowing costs, along with weakening economic conditions and calls for more budget cutting, led to the fall of the Berlusconi government and his replacement by former EU commissioner Mario Monti.  Although this change may bode well for future economic reforms, the political transition has been chaotic and has further roiled financial markets.  Indeed, investors remain uncertain as to whether Italy’s new government of unelected technocrats will be able to muster the political support needed to push through unpopular fiscal austerity measures. And now, alarmingly, market pressures are spreading to core euro-area economies, with France’s and Belgium’s borrowing costs rising, Belgium’s credit rating being downgraded by S&P, and, as Brian mentioned, even Germany having a poor bond auction last week.  Calls are mounting for the ECB to stem the panic by taking a more active role in funding vulnerable governments, possibly by channeling funds either through the IMF or the EFSF.  An alternative approach, involving greater fiscal centralization and the issuance of Eurobonds guaranteed by the euro area as a whole, is also mustering support, including most recently by the European Commission.  However, Germany and the ECB so far have continued to resist these options, increasing investor concerns that the financial crisis could deepen while European officials watch either helplessly or passively from the sidelines.  Moreover, the recently announced plans for the recapitalization of Europe’s banks are believed likely to promote deleveraging and contribute to a credit crunch that will further weigh on Europe’s economy. Turning to the economic outlook, our October forecast for only slight declines in euro-area GDP this quarter and next now seems optimistic.  Retail sales, industrial production, and new orders fell sharply in September; October surveys show continued declines in business and consumer confidence; and the euro-area composite PMI in October and November has fallen well into contractionary territory.  Given the escalating financial stresses, the troubled banking sectors, and ever-increasing calls for fiscal consolidation, we are currently anticipating that the recession in Europe will be more severe and prolonged. These conditions present a significant risk to U.S. financial systems and to the U.S. economic recovery.  With this in mind, the FOMC might want to consider changes to its liquidity swap lines with foreign central banks aimed at easing funding stresses and bolstering investor confidence.  Accordingly, as detailed in the proposed resolution circulated earlier this morning, we are seeking your approval of a six-month extension of the existing dollar swap lines through February 1, 2013, along with the establishment of additional swap arrangements with our central bank counterparties to support the provision by the Federal Reserve of liquidity in Canadian dollars, British pounds, Japanese yen, euros, and Swiss francs.  These foreign currency swap lines are not needed today, but they would be established as part of a broad network of bilateral swap lines intended to address potential future funding needs and to support market confidence by demonstrating cooperation among the major central banks.  Before the initial drawing on these new swap lines, the Foreign Currency Subcommittee would consult with the Federal Open Market Committee if possible under the circumstances then prevailing.  These new arrangements would also expire in February 2013. Both for the dollar swap lines and for the new lines providing other currencies, we propose that the Chairman establish the interest rates by agreement with the foreign central banks and in consultation with the Foreign Currency Subcommittee.  He would keep the Federal Open Market Committee informed, and the rates agreed would be consistent with the principles discussed with the Committee.  In this regard, we have reached tentative agreement with our foreign counterparties on a reduction in the cost of borrowing through the existing dollar swap lines of 50 basis points—from 100 basis points over OIS to 50 basis points over OIS.  The reduction in borrowing costs should help reduce banks’ aversion to using the swap facilities, thus strengthening their liquidity positions and reducing the pace of their deleveraging and associated impacts on credit conditions.  These actions, if approved, will be described in a coordinated announcement by the Federal Reserve and our five central bank counterparties—the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, the Swiss National Bank, the Bank of Japan, and the Bank of Canada.  That announcement is likely to be made Wednesday morning.  That concludes my remarks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  Are there questions for Brian or Steve.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents a contentious situation regarding the European financial crisis and the actions being taken to address it. The passage mentions disagreements between European leaders, the Greek government and its creditors, and Germany and the ECB. There are also differing opinions on how to handle the crisis, with some calling for the ECB to take a more active role and others suggesting fiscal centralization and the issuance of Eurobonds.


Passage number 3.
 MR. FISHER.  Steve, can you bring us up to date on what is likely to occur in the G-7 in terms of addressing solvency issues.  That’s the first of many questions I have, but it seems to me that we have to have a backdrop.  And I’m curious as to what you expect—or what we expect, Mr. Chairman—to come out of these discussions, in addition to our committing to addressing liquidity needs.  That’s question number one.  What do we know that is not in the press.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple request for information and clarification.


Passage number 4.
 MR. TARULLO.  Nothing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any conflicting ideas or opposing viewpoints. The statement made by Mr. Tarullo is straightforward and does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 5.
 MR. KAMIN.  Yes.  On question number two, I do not believe we know that much that’s not in the press, but perhaps the Chairman can add to that.  On the issue of solvency, a couple of things.  First, clearly, the G-7 is engaged on this, and they have had talks recently.  But ultimately the role of the non-European members of the G-7 is really going to be to advise and perhaps pressure the European leaders on steps that need to be taken.  They are addressing both the liquidity and the solvency issues, and those do need to be addressed jointly.  The liquidity issue is quite obvious, which is that the possibility of a self-fulfilling prophecy of an investor run leading to default looms very large, and so you do need some backstops.  At the same time, particularly the European leaders are keenly aware that there are solvency issues involved.  They are very reluctant to put liquidity rescue measures in place if they cannot be assured that Italy, Spain, and other peripheral countries will put in place the fiscal reforms needed to guarantee solvency and sustainability.  In that regard, the most obvious option now on the table is basically that any rescue measures be done in conjunction with an IMF program to enforce the conditionality needed to provide comfort to the European leaders. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher, before we begin our general discussion in just a minute, I can talk about some calls I’ve had.  On solvency, just to reiterate what Steve said, the clearest case of insolvency is Greece, which is being addressed in various ways.  Arguably, for example, the increase in the German interest rate is not a solvency issue; it’s a concern about the stability of the euro and about self-fulfilling panics.  So I think there is arguably, for many if not most of the countries other than Greece, a significant element of panic or liquidity issue, as opposed to a solvency issue.  But again, to reiterate what Steve said, the Europeans are very focused—some would say too focused—on the moral-hazard solvency issues and are addressing that from a number of different fronts.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speakers are providing additional information and elaborating on the topic of solvency and liquidity issues in Europe. They are expressing their thoughts and observations about the situation, but there is no direct disagreement or argument among them.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 6.
 MR. FISHER.  Brian, am I correct that two-year Greek debt is trading over 100 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. This is because the statement suggests that there is disagreement or contention regarding the trading value of two-year Greek debt being over 100 percent. Some may believe it is accurate, while others may disagree with this assessment.


Passage number 7.
  MR. SACK.  Yes, 120 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple statement of agreement - "Yes, 120 percent."


Passage number 8.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you.  Mr. Chairman, as I understand this—obviously, there’s a code among central bankers.  These don’t seem to be extraordinary.  I’m curious as to whether—we’ll have a discussion in just a minute—part of this package is that we’re going to reduce the domestic discount rate as well.  In other words, what lies herein is extending swap arrangements, which we’ve all, for the most part, agreed to, and adding the new dimension of providing liquidity in Canadian dollars, British pounds, Japanese yen, euros, and Swiss francs if requested by the appropriate Reserve Bank—I presume that means Richmond, largely, or New York for B of A, and then the other big institutions, but it might include others.  The suggestion here, as stated in the current intention, is that we reduce the rate on existing lines to OIS plus 50.  OIS is, what, 12 basis points.  So that would be less than the 75 we charge domestic institutions to borrow.  Implicit in this is that we would reduce the domestic discount rate.  Or can we justify—even though they are central banks—lending money to foreigners—to use the term that our overseers might use—at a cheaper rate than we lend to our highest-quality domestic banks.  Is that our intention. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s our current intention.  I was hoping to address that, though, before we begin our substantive round.  Would you allow me to do that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 9.
 MR. FISHER.  Yes, sir—of course. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’ll come back to it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Fisher will come back to something without expressing any disagreement or conflicting opinion.


Passage number 10.
 MR. FISHER.  And then the last thing is—and maybe this is a point you wish to address—in terms of adhering to Bagehot principles, not just regarding the rate we charge, but also regarding the collateral that is accepted, that this is an intra–central bank facility.  But to take an extreme example, if during the course of time we decide to roll it over between now and February 1, 2013, and the euro is no longer the euro that we know, I’m curious as to how this is actually secured.  How would they pay us back.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 11.
 MR. KAMIN.  On that issue, a couple of points are worth making.  First of all, in our bilateral agreement with the ECB, basically, they would be beholden, as per the contract, to return dollars to us in any event, even if the collateral that we were holding—the euros—no longer had the standing that they did beforehand.  So, first, from a legal perspective, we are still owed the dollars.  Second, presumably, the euro would still be exchangeable for the currencies that would succeed the euro if it came to that.  So, in that instance, too, there will be value.  And finally—and I think this is important—right now, we’ve got two different tenors of swaps, the one week and the three month.  Certainly, the one-week swaps are short enough so that we could foresee an event and not lend any of those.  Even the three-month swaps seem to have a sufficiently short time frame that if it looked as though the demise of the euro area were imminent, we could basically not participate in those swaps.  So I think we have a reasonable amount of comfort on all of those fronts that the demise of the euro area, while no longer as unthinkable as it once was, probably does not pose a threat to the safety of these swaps.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing his perspective on the issue of the euro area's potential demise and how it would impact the safety of the swaps. He presents several points to support his view and concludes that he has a reasonable amount of comfort regarding the safety of the swaps.


Passage number 12.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you very much.  I have other questions, Mr. Chairman, but I’ll defer them until we get into the discussion.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Any other questions for Brian or Steve.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a statement of thanks and a deferral of further questions.


Passage number 13.
 MR. LACKER.  Will these be sterilized. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That had not been our plan.  But if they become large, I think we would have to consider that.  Up to now, of course, it’s been essentially irrelevant because the draws have been tiny.  And frankly, I don’t expect large draws.  I think this is viewed as a backstop rather than as a major source of funding.  But if they became large, we would have to consider that, yes.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker is stating his opinion that if the draws become large, they would have to consider sterilizing them, but he also mentions that he doesn't expect large draws. President Fisher doesn't seem to have a conflicting opinion either.


Passage number 14.
 MR. FISHER.  Do we have in mind, Mr. Chairman, a limit in terms of the expansion of our balance sheet. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, as I said, this is technically an unlimited swap line, as we have had since 2008.  Of course, we do have to agree to each individual draw.  Is that correct, Scott.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply a clarification of the conditions and limits related to a balance sheet expansion and swap line agreements.


Passage number 15.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  If they became excessively large, we could either restrict them or sterilize them.  So, no, I wouldn’t anticipate that our balance sheet would grow meaningfully because of this, but that would be a decision for the FOMC to undertake.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Alvarez.


Passage number 16.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I really have an FYI that leads to a question.  I take it from remarks earlier about the idea of a network of bilateral swap arrangements that you would draw the line with the G-7 currencies.  552 U.S.C. (b)(4), who’s the governor of the central bank, and in a private discussion, he made an appeal.  Even though they have quite ample reserves at the moment, he made an appeal for a swap line because they are concerned about the turbulence that could come out of Europe that would affect hot money flows back and forth into 552 U.S.C. (b)(4).  So that’s the FYI.  Maybe the Board has already heard officially from 552 U.S.C. (b)(4) or some other country, but I wanted to mention that.  The question, really, is the following:  Is the current thinking that we would draw the line with simply G-7 countries. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, we have a lot of interest from emerging market economies in swap lines.  As you know, we were up to 14 counterparties during the crisis.  552 U.S.C. (b)(4) would very much like to have a swap line with us.  Obviously, today we’re talking about the G-7.  My own sense is that, first of all, there should be a higher bar to going to the emerging market counterparties, in part because of greater counterparty risk.  Second, the concerns they have are still prospective rather than actual for the most part.  Obviously, if we reached a very destructive situation, we would have to look at that again.  However, at this point in time, I am not planning to propose any further expansion.  But, of course, again, this is an FOMC decision, and if conditions warrant and the FOMC wants to address it, that’s fine.  But there’s no current plan in place to go beyond the G-7.  Other questions.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of Mr. Lockhart providing information and asking a question about the current thinking on bilateral swap arrangements. There is some mention of different countries wanting swap lines, but Mr. Lockhart's response suggests a cautious approach without any explicit disagreement.


Passage number 17.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I guess I’d advise against this.  I think that, basically, theatrics are important in a situation like this, and coordinated central bank action would more or less send a panic signal without doing very much to actually help the situation.  We had the 100 basis point policy in place all the way through 2008 and 2009.  It actually worked quite well in that instance and did a lot to chase borrowers out to the market once conditions returned to a more normal status.  I like the 100 basis point penalty that we had before, and given that it is battle tested, I don’t really see a good reason to change it here.  I also think the 50 basis point backstop would be unlikely to address any stigma issues.  If there are stigma issues, there’s stigma.  And, as you point out, 100 basis points is already in the money right now, and it doesn’t seem to me that things would change that much if we moved that to 50 basis points.  We’re going to be under a lot of pressure and a lot of criticism that we’re somehow bailing out the Europeans.  That’s a very dangerous situation for the organization.  Also, I think that in Europe, the recent discussions of enforcing fiscal austerity at the EU level are the first serious signs I’ve seen of some kind of significant reform that would actually address the problem instead of piling debt on top of existing debt problems.  So I’d be very reluctant to take the pressure off the politicians in Europe on that process, however mild that might be, because we’re a long way away and this is relatively minor policy on that. On the extension, I would prefer to extend in some kind of regularly scheduled meeting, preferably the January meeting.  Then you could review swap lines every year in January and not review them in the heat of the crisis when you’re actually sending a signal in conjunction with the review of the swap lines.  I think we’ve often been reviewing these in the heat of the moment, and I’d prefer to review them at regularly scheduled times that do not contribute to the problem.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Just a quick comment.  I think there are a number of efforts under way to address moral hazard and fiscal reform issues.  The market situation is one that might not comfortably await a regular meeting.  We’ve also had these discussions with the foreign central banks, and they all believe that this would be a positive for markets and a positive for perception of cooperation and coordination.  But again, that’s a judgment you have to make.  Other comments.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own opinion and providing reasons for it, but there is no mention of any opposing views or debate with other individuals.


Passage number 18.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I’m strongly supportive of this action.  I do think the financial markets are badly disrupted, and it does make sense to address it in a coordinated effort.  I do have two questions.  One is whether we have communicated with the other central banks about the moral suasion issue—that there is an expectation that banks would be borrowing in their home country when there is access to a swap line.  Has that communication occurred, and do we have a reason to believe that that moral suasion will be effective.  Because I would have a mild preference for actually having the rate at which both domestic and foreign banks borrow be the same if we thought that moral suasion would be effective.  My second question is on disclosure.  One part is whether or not we would be disclosing who’s tapping the lines by central bank in our own releases.  And the second part is whether any other central banks have different disclosure requirements—in terms of banks borrowing from their central banks or in terms of them borrowing from us.  Have we thought through all of the disclosure issues.  Because when we think of stigma, disclosure is an important component of stigma, and given the Dodd–Frank requirements for providing more information, I’d be curious about how we were thinking about those disclosure issues across countries.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes—I’d be happy to get any help that’s needed—but let me just say that on the moral suasion issue, we’ve been very clear, not only in the context of the swaps, but also more generally, that the discount window is a very short-term facility, and that we expect the Europeans and their regulators and their finance ministries to make sure that European banks’ issues are being addressed by Europeans and not by the Federal Reserve.  We’ve gotten a few troubled cases out of the window, as you know, and I don’t believe we currently have any significant lending to European banks.  So, yes, we’ve been very clear throughout that we don’t want the discount window to be used as a first resort for European banks. On disclosure, if I understand correctly from our previous practice, we would disclose regularly the amounts drawn by each counterparty—that is, each central bank.  We would not know necessarily to whom they were lending, and I don’t know about each of the five counterparties, but as far as I know, none of them disclose to whom they lend, although sometimes it’s either obvious to figure out or becomes known.  But, no, we would certainly not be doing that, because our counterparties are the individual central banks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of two individuals asking questions and providing information in response.


Passage number 19.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  If I could add something there, Mr. Chairman.  However, if we do the reciprocal lines, and, for example, we then do transactions in yen with domestic banks, that would be considered open market operations.  We would disclose those eight quarters after the transactions occurred. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  This is an interesting question—I should have asked you this before:  If we got yen, could we lend yen through the discount window, or would it be only an OMO type of thing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question seeking clarification or confirmation.


Passage number 20.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  That’s a question of first impression.  Because the System has never lent any currency other than dollars, we’re looking into that.  We clearly can do open market operations with anyone in the market.  If we consider it that way, then we would buy and sell the yen, and we would treat that as open market operations for the Dodd–Frank Act.  That would involve eight-quarter disclosure. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that they are looking into the possibility of lending currency other than dollars and discussing how it would be treated under the Dodd-Frank Act.


Passage number 21.
 MR. FISHER.  To get back to Eric’s question of disclosure, I’m trying to understand this.  If someone draws down one of these swap lines—I’m talking about the dollar lines—we’d book it as a loan to a central bank.  Is that correct. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply expresses agreement with Eric's question about disclosure and seeks clarification on the accounting treatment of swap lines.


Passage number 22.
 MR. FISHER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is no passage provided, so it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 23.
  Once it is lent out, then, from that central bank— MR. ALVAREZ.  It’s not a loan.  It’s a swap. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But the counterparty is the central bank.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Alvarez contradicts the statement that the central bank lends out money and calls it a swap instead.


Passage number 24.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  Correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states the word "correct" in response to a statement or question made by Mr. Alvarez. There is no evident contention or disagreement in this brief statement.


Passage number 25.
 MR. FISHER.  Right.  Once that central bank lends it out, does it shift to a loan to depository institutions, or does it stay as a swap. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It stays as a swap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The answer provided by Mr. Fisher is a simple statement of fact.


Passage number 26.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  It stays the same.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states that something remains unchanged without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 27.
 MR. FISHER.  So we have no way of knowing, to answer President Rosengren’s question, where this ultimately ends up.  It’s not disclosed.  Is that correct. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It’s not disclosed.  We could inquire, of course, but our counterparty is the central bank.  And they’re the ones who are responsible to us.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher is simply stating the fact that they have no way of knowing the ultimate outcome and that the information is not disclosed. There is no conflicting opinion or opposing viewpoint presented.


Passage number 28.
 MR. FISHER.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman Dudley.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a polite and neutral exchange between Mr. Fisher and Vice Chairman Dudley.


Passage number 29.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I strongly support this.  I think creating a more effective backstop for dollar liquidity is important.  The way that it’s being proposed will signal international policy coordination; we’ve seen historically through the crisis that international policy coordination is perceived by the market very favorably.  And cutting the rate will encourage somewhat more usage, which will help destigmatize the facility.  A destigmatized facility is a more effective backstop than one that’s heavily stigmatized.  I think the outcome we’re trying to seek here is that by having a more effective dollar backstop, we’ll have less forced deleveraging by European banks of their dollar books of assets  How fast they deleverage those books of assets has real consequences for the United States’ economy.  That’s really the connection in terms of what’s in it for us; I think there really is something in it for us, and we shouldn’t lose sight of that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I would commend to the group an article by my ex-colleague at Princeton, Hyun Shin, which looks at the transmission of credit from U.S. dollar sources and other dollar sources through the European banking system.  Much of that dollar funding flows back into the United States.  This, in fact, is addressing a funding problem of a credit source, which in turn affects U.S. borrowers.  So there is a connection that we can point to.  Other questions or comments.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is expressing support for creating a more effective backstop for dollar liquidity and discussing the potential benefits and connections to the United States' economy.


Passage number 30.
 MR. FISHER.  I think, Mr. Chairman, first of all, that nobody wants to undermine you, and I certainly personally never wish to undermine you.  And I do think you have to have the leeway you discussed.  I do find more convincing the explanation you gave us earlier, which is, we’re not lending through the discount window.  And we’ve had criticism of lending to foreign borrowers through the discount window, so we’re not changing there.  We’re lending to another central bank and within the fraternity and sorority of central banks around the world.  All I’m suggesting is that we really think through how this will be communicated, because we know—or at least I’m willing to surmise—that there will be tough questions asked, and we just have to be clear.  And that goes beyond what the statement said.  So the question is whether there is a vehicle for you to do that.  I’m not against the proposal; I have concerns about the proposal.  Its effectiveness will be dependent on how we communicate it.  I’m just raising that flag and asking us to think this through, as to how we get it done so we don’t end up pulling the rug out from underneath you or from the purpose of the exercise.  That’s my point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I appreciate that.  I agree—communication is a big part of this.  President Bullard was next on my list.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: The passage does not show any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker expresses support for the chairman and agrees with his explanation, but also raises concerns about the communication of the proposal. Overall, there is a cooperative tone in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 31.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  On expected usage, I understood Vice Chairman Dudley to argue that usage would probably be up substantially because of the deleveraging in Europe, but I understood you to say that you didn’t think these swap lines would be used that much.  So I think we should try to get some clarity on where we really think usage is likely to go.  I’d also say that under the 100 basis point policy, we didn’t seem to have any trouble getting people to use the facility during 2008 and 2009.  So I’m wondering what’s changed this time.  And I’m a little concerned that at 50 basis points, if the dollar funding remains in the money, then you could end up with the addicted banking system in Europe that wants the dollar funding over the long term, and then we don’t really get out of the swap lines the way we did in 2008 and 2009.  The 100 basis point policy was very useful from that point of view, and you got those banks to seek other sources during that time. As far as the signaling goes, I disagree with the way the other central banks see this.  They want to send a united signal, which I would interpret mostly as they want to get the Fed on board, but I don’t think that this is the way to go in this crisis.  What you’ve got are governments that are counting on central banks to bail them out, and you need to keep pressure on those governments to get the fiscal austerity that they need.  They’ve borrowed way too much, and they’re certainly hoping that central banks will somehow bail them out, so we’re sending exactly the wrong signal.  I can believe other central banks want to do it, but I don’t think it’s a good idea, and I don’t think it’s a good way to manage a crisis.  Again, I would prefer to review swap lines at regular junctures, not at particular moments of intense turmoil in markets.  That’s a better way to go, and then you get rid of the signaling problem of a panic mode and a signal that the central banks are all coming to the governments’ rescue.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  On the exit problem, the fact is, of course, that all of the loans are for finite periods, and we can stop lending anytime we want, or we can raise the rate anytime we want.  So I don’t think that is a real issue. I don’t know how much the swap borrowing would increase.  Maybe Vice Chairman Dudley has a thought.  My thinking on why it would not be so large is that if it does create more assurance, it will ease the flow of private money, because of the backstop feature, so that the funding can take place through private channels.  But I obviously don’t know for sure.  Vice Chairman Dudley, you have a two-handed response to that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard disagrees with Vice Chairman Dudley on the expected usage of swap lines and the effectiveness of the 50 basis point policy. He also disagrees with the approach of other central banks in providing bailouts and believes that pressure should be put on governments for fiscal austerity. Mr. Bullard also suggests a different approach to managing swap lines and avoiding panic mode.


Passage number 32.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  I think you’re absolutely right—we don’t know for sure.  We want some increase in usage because if we didn’t get an increase in usage, it would just show us that the swap lines were still very stigmatized.  So we want some increase in usage, which would serve to destigmatize the swaps, make them more effective as a backstop, and therefore keep more private-sector players in the game.  I think you’d see some increase in usage.  How much depends on how well we actually are destigmatizing the facility so it serves as an effective backstop.  I don’t know if it would be substantial or small.  All we can say is that reducing the rate from 100 basis points to 50 basis points does two things:  One, it increases the economics of using the swap facilities to a degree; and, two, it allows people who had been staying out to now say, “Oh, it’s now okay to use this facility.”  If you have a number of people use it rather than just two or three, then the facility becomes destigmatized, and so it becomes more effective as a backstop.  That’s how I see it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thanks.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their agreement with the previous statement and discussing the potential benefits of increasing usage of swap lines.


Passage number 33.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support this resolution today.  I think that it’s a relatively small action given everything that’s going on.  As Vice Chairman Dudley just mentioned, I’m not sure if this will solve the stigma problem, but we can find out.  Showing coordination with the other G-7 central banks is helpful in the current situation.  Having listened to the discussion from President Fisher and President Rosengren, I am a little nervous about the discount rate alignment.  It might be worth thinking through more carefully whether or not reducing the discount rate to 50 basis points would be a good idea to align it with the overall borrowing incentives associated with this swap.  Trying to avoid any appearance that we’re attempting to skirt disclosure requirements might be helpful, but that’s for the Board to decide, obviously.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher, I had a lot of the same concerns about what this said in terms of the difference in the borrowing rates to our banks versus the foreign central banks.  But here is the reason I’ve come out on the side of doing nothing with the primary credit rate at this point.  First of all, I think there would certainly be some risk that in communicating the reduction in the primary credit rate, you could get some speculation as to what U.S. banks we were reducing it for and what the reason—changes in financial conditions in U.S. banks—for that was.  To the extent that it actually did encourage usage of our discount window at the same time, there’s always the speculation as to who’s in there using that rate.  Also, we will be reporting to the Congress who was using the discount window.  All of that seemed to me to raise a lot of questions that might actually be more harmful to U.S. banks than not.  Finally, if you haven’t lowered it yet, you can always lower it.  And if there does get to be a very public criticism about the difference in the rates, then you can very specifically respond to that criticism by changing the rate, and it seems to me that the communication challenge is a little bit easier then.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 34.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  I think this would give the Chairman the latitude, after consulting with the subcommittee and informing the full Committee, to deny draws or approve draws. MS. RASKIN.  So it’s “approved or denied”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a dialogue between Mr. Alvarez and Ms. Raskin discussing a proposal. They are both stating their understanding of the proposal, with Mr. Alvarez suggesting that the Chairman would have the authority to approve or deny draws, and Ms. Raskin summarizing his point. There is no clear indication of disagreement or contention in this passage.


Passage number 35.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  Yes. MS. RASKIN.  Okay.  And in that same sentence, the idea about “distribution of the proceeds to U.S. financial institutions”—to come back to the earlier part of the conversation regarding transparency, would the distribution of proceeds to U.S. financial institutions be disclosed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. The speakers are simply discussing a potential topic or aspect related to transparency without expressing conflicting opinions.


Passage number 36.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  Yes.  Remember, there are two directions that these swaps would work in.  There are the swaps with the foreign central bank that they disseminate through their mechanisms and their countries.  The disclosure of that would all be done by the foreign central bank, if at all—not by us.  We do disclose that we’ve had the swap with the foreign central bank and how much draw there has been by that foreign central bank.  But the clause you’re referring to is the reciprocal side of the line.  So if we were to allow an institution in the United States to draw down yen that we had taken from a swap line, for example, then we would consider that an open market operation, the sale of foreign exchange in the open market.  We would have to disclose that eight quarters after the transaction had occurred.  We would make a disclosure of our counterparty and the amount and the rate, but it would be done in the future. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions, comments.  President Lacker has two hands.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are simply providing information and clarifying the process of swaps with foreign central banks.


Passage number 37.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes, I’d like to follow up on this point.  It says “initiated by the appropriate Reserve Bank.”  That seems to parallel the discount window and the way it works, and that Reserve Bank is essentially in charge of lending to an institution in its District.  But this is an open market operation.  Would this be administered through New York.  And, more broadly, should we go down this path.  Do you have in mind any protocol for deciding on an individual institution in a given District outside New York.  What if the Reserve Bank doesn’t initiate it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is merely a series of questions and requests for clarification.


Passage number 38.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  I’ll leave the policy issue to others, but on the operational side, the thought was that because each financial institution—bank, in particular—has accounts at its local Reserve Bank, it made sense for banks in particular to deal with the Reserve Bank where they had an account and then for the Reserve Bank—say, Richmond—to obtain the currency from the SOMA.  That was an easier operational method than having banks deal directly with New York, which wouldn’t have the account set up for the bank.  So they’re OMO transactions, but we would be dealing with counterparties beyond the primary dealers, which are normally who we do the OMO transactions with.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the operational method that was chosen for banks to deal with the Reserve Bank.


Passage number 39.
 MR. LACKER.  Would this just be with banks, or could it be with any affiliates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking a clarification question.


Passage number 40.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  It could be done with any financial institution, the way the resolution is worded.  So that would include affiliates as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think it’s important that we get these details straight, but I would hope we don’t get too far down this line because this is a pretty hypothetical situation.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Alvarez is simply providing clarification and expressing his hope that the discussion does not become too focused on a hypothetical situation. President Fisher's response is not given in the passage provided.


Passage number 41.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, the way the statement is written, there’s no mention of the rate we would charge.  It does say that “the Chairman shall establish the rates on the swap arrangements by mutual agreement with the foreign central banks and in consultation with the Foreign Currency Subcommittee,” and that you’ll keep us informed.  I assume that paragraph applies to both sets of swap arrangements—the dollar swaps and the foreign currency swaps—is that correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage is a statement made by Mr. Fisher in which he is seeking clarification on the details of the statement. He is not expressing disagreement or contention but rather seeking additional information.


Passage number 42.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Yes, that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is simply agreeing with the previous statement.


Passage number 43.
 MR. FISHER.  Okay.  And that it’ll be “consistent with principles discussed with and guidance provided by the Committee.”  Again, my guidance, for what it’s worth, as an individual on the Committee and as a voter, is that we not lend at less than what we lend to high-quality U.S. banks.  You will have the freedom under this, in consultation with the Foreign Currency Subcommittee, to make that decision.  I want to be extremely careful here in terms of not undermining authority.  You’re primus inter pares; you’re the Chairman.  But I do think it is inadvisable for us to lend—despite the counterarguments, which are helpful and should be articulated—at less than we lend to our domestic counterparts; I have real trouble supporting that.  I guess—and please don’t take offense—I don’t like the process with which this has been developed.  I think we should have had this discussion at some point to highlight what these obstacles are.  Obviously, you know us all well.  You’re making the best judgment possible, and you are the central bank in the eyes of our counterparts.  But that is a very tough one for me to swallow as an individual member of this Committee.  And then the second thing, which President Rosengren and President Evans mentioned, is the transparency issue.  I’m sure we’re going to get questions.  We have to be prepared to deal with that.  Again, when we release the statement, we’re not going to state the rate, as I understand it.  We are going to say that you will establish the rate in consultation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 44.
 MR. ENGLISH.  No, I think there’s a distinction that you need to make between the resolution that the Committee will pass and the statement that will be released Wednesday morning before the opening of business, which is being negotiated. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  There will be a press release.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the distinction between a resolution that will be passed by the Committee and a statement that is being negotiated for release.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 45.
 MR. FISHER.  So you’re asking us to agree, then, on the 50 basis points—is that correct.  And we would make that public. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, technically, you’re agreeing to delegate it to me, in consultation with the Foreign Currency Subcommittee.  But I’m informing you that it would be my intention, along with the other five central banks, to agree to a rate of 50 basis points plus OIS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. The speaker is asking for agreement on the 50 basis points, while also clarifying that the decision would actually be delegated to him, in consultation with the Foreign Currency Subcommittee. This indicates a potential difference in opinion or understanding of the decision-making process.


Passage number 46.
 MR. FISHER.  Would we record minutes of this meeting, where you had some concerns expressed about lending at less than we would have lent to the domestic banks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course.  This is a formal meeting, and it’ll have minutes and transcripts.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply confirming that minutes will be recorded for the formal meeting.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 47.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, again, I’m worried about putting you in an uncomfortable position.  There is a principle here that I’m worried about as well, and then there is the reactive aspect of this, which I’m concerned about.  If I may just put my cards on the table, in answer to Governor Duke’s question, I think it would be a mistake to cut the rate to domestic banks to 50 basis points and do it simultaneously.  I believe we would then panic the markets.  So, Governor Duke, I agree with you.  I think it would send a bad signal.  I wouldn’t close that door, depending on what happens in terms of economic developments.  Where I come down personally is that we should not have agreed to 50 basis points.  We should have agreed to 75 or 12 basis points less than that, wherever OIS is.  But this is a dilemma because, again, we don’t want to undermine our standing, and certainly we don’t want to undermine your standing.  So I’m just being utterly frank here.  I think that’s the biggest problem with this proposal—the 50 basis points.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman Dudley.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher expresses his concerns about cutting the rate to domestic banks to 50 basis points and doing it simultaneously. He believes it would panic the markets and send a bad signal. He suggests that they should have agreed to 75 basis points or 12 basis points less than that. This differs from the view of others who may have agreed to the 50 basis points rate.


Passage number 48.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I just wanted to make the very simple point that we think it’s highly unlikely that we’d ever be lending foreign currencies to U.S. depository institutions or other financial institutions.  So all of this discussion about how these bilateral swap lines would actually work in practice is, as you said, hypothetical—extremely hypothetical.  My understanding of why the bilateral swap lines are even on the table is that this is just something that the other central banks would like to see to signal the greatest degree of international policy coordination, as opposed to a need that we think we actually are, under any reasonable scenario, likely to ever have. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any other questions or comments.  [No response]  All right.  Well, I thank you for the discussion.  The reservations are noted.  I appreciate, Richard, the points you made.  We are somewhat reactive of necessity.  The world is changing quickly, and we are trying to coordinate with five other central banks, which makes it more difficult to do things with a long lead time.  My view is that this is a helpful step, not a major step.  But I am quite concerned about market developments in general, and I think we should be prepared to have another meeting should that be necessary.  As I said before, my concern is that it’s even worse than political.  I think the Europeans just do not, in some sense, get it, to use the vernacular.  I don’t believe they understand quite how dangerous the situation is that they’re involved in.  They are, of course, in a situation where politicians are making the decisions, and they have many concerns other than the ideal economic outcome. If there are no further comments, given that there were some concerns, I think we probably should take a roll call vote on this.  Debbie. MS. DANKER.  Okay.  This vote is on the resolution that was sent around this morning. Chairman Bernanke   Yes Vice Chairman Dudley   Yes—a hundred times, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their agreement and support for a resolution that was sent around.


