Passage number 1.
 MR. DOTSEY.  I agree with you on these things.  Right now, the models that we have mix extensive and intensive margins, and we really don’t talk about things like unemployment.  It is true that deviations of where the model is from a steady state are very important, and those are gap-like concepts, but not exactly what you may be asking about.  A lot of those types of things, though, are on the DSGE framework.  I think that many of the things you suggest are doable; they just haven’t been done yet.  They involve a lot of work, and researchers have to figure out which ones they want to attack and in what order.  As I mentioned in my briefing, developing more realistic labor market sectors, where we can actually look at unemployment measures in more detail, are certainly front and center.  None of our models incorporates that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  Any other questions.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with the ideas and suggestions mentioned.


Passage number 2.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  I have two sets of questions.  One, how have the models done in terms of forecasting.  You show the current forecast, but if you back things up six months or a year ago, or two years ago, how have they actually done.  And when a model does poorly, how do you assess that.  Is that because there were shocks or because the model was misspecified.  How do you interpret what is a good model versus what is a bad model. My second set of questions is going to maybe go in the same direction as the Chairman was going.  How do you think about balance sheet constraints in the context of these models. For example, right now you have changes in credit standards and credit availability.  Do the models just take those and translate them into a particular shock.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is simply a series of questions seeking information and clarification.


Passage number 3.
 MR. DOTSEY.  Okay.  With regard to forecasting, there has been only a little bit of work done with these particular models formally testing how well they forecast.  In particular, the EDO model has done some exercises, I believe, over the 1997 to 2004 period, and I think the answer is that it does about as well as FRB/US. Some other work that I have read by somebody at the ECB has looked at three or four different DSGE models—the Smets-Wouters model, something very close to EDO—and has looked at model averaging.  In those particular exercises, when you start looking three and four and five quarters out, the DSGE approach seems to outforecast what was in the Greenbook when it comes to output growth, does slightly less well on inflation, and actually, surprisingly, does a little bit better at predicting the Committee’s own behavior three, four, and five quarters out.  These are not our models, and certainly, if you were to use the forecasts from our models, I agree that one of the things that we need to be able to bring to your attention is how well their forecasts have done over a period of time in comparison with others. In terms of trying to think about misspecification—and I’m going to let some of my colleagues pipe in, if they want to, because they are the actual experts on model development.  When you start seeing really, really huge shocks that have to drive everything and the shocks take on a very persistent type of character, then you can be somewhat skeptical of the model.  That is a signal that something outside the model that is driving things.  Then you may have to say, “Well, maybe in this particular case, because it is just large persistent shocks and is not something endogenous to the model, we are not looking at your DSGE model today.” In terms of credit standards, I believe in the New York model—I’m going to let Marco answer this in a minute—those types of things reflect, for example, how much net worth people have and how risky the borrowers are, and that will influence credit spreads endogenously.  In the EDO model, the risk premium is, as you say, exogenous.  But there are models on the shelf that do look at these net worth characteristics and how they do affect credit spreads, and I believe that those could be incorporated into the framework as we go forward.  I would like to turn to Marco, who has done more work on this, if that’s okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply providing information and stating different perspectives on forecasting and model development.


Passage number 4.
 MR. DEL NEGRO.  Let me address one thing about the misspecification.  Of course, big forecast errors translate into shocks in this model.  That has to be the case.  However, because these models are estimated, the econometrician learns, and the model learns, from past mistakes.  The model hates having big forecast errors.  [Laughter]  And, therefore, parameter estimates adjust.  That happens, for instance, for the incorporation of financial frictions with data coming from the crisis. Getting back to your question about the balance sheet, the New York model has, in a very coarse way, an idea of leverage.  Leverage is fundamental to explain the financial frictions in the model.  So, at a very high level, we can talk about leverage—of course, probably not to the very specific extent that you want us to talk about it, but there is model development in terms of having a finer banking system.  We hope that in the future we will be better able to address your questions.  The other models also address, to some extent, these other shocks, like marginal efficiency and investment shocks, that capture financial frictions.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is addressing a question and providing an explanation for how forecast errors are incorporated and how the models adjust parameter estimates. They also mention that there is ongoing model development to address specific aspects of the banking system and hope to better address future questions.


Passage number 5.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Let me piggyback with a comment related to forecasting with EDO.  As Mike said, the published paper on the forecasting ability of EDO only went through 2004.  But, actually, J. P. Laforte, Rochelle Edge, and Mike Kiley looked at it through a more recent period in a sort of pseudo real-time forecasting exercise using the actual data published at the time.  And we have also had the actual real-time forecasting experience of EDO.  I think it really shows what Mike said, in the sense that EDO does about as well as a lot of techniques.  As Mike Kiley would immediately say, “That’s not a fantastic standard to hold it to,” [laughter] but it does as well.  So these models are useful for forecasting.  In terms of what has been happening over the last year or so, I’d say the way EDO has been surprised is in many respects the same as the way FRB/US and the staff forecast in general have been surprised—that is, this recovery has turned out to be slower and more prolonged—and we’re having to reassess what is going on as the weakness persists.  And that relates to the point Marco made:  The model errors raise the question of what exactly is going on out here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mostly providing additional information and supporting the previous statements.


Passage number 6.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  To start, I would like to thank Mike and all of the System staff who worked on this project, which has been going on for quite some time.  I think this work illustrates some of the valuable synergies between policy analysis and academic research.  I especially applaud the approach of comparing and contrasting alternative models, which illustrates the tough modeling choices and tradeoffs that all researchers face when developing models for policy analysis, and I think, more importantly, provides different perspectives on the economy and policy. I have two questions for Mike.  First, what do you see to be the key advantages or insights of the DSGE models over, say, FRB/US in thinking about the current situation and the appropriate stance of policy today.  And my closely-related second question is, what do these models tell us about the impact of the events of the past three years on potential output—or, in the parlance of DSGE models, the natural rate of output—and the output gap. One purported advantage of DSGE models is they provide a theoretical basis for distinguishing between shocks to supply and demand.  Indeed, in many DSGE models, supply shocks—that’s shocks to preferences and technology—account for a significant share of economic fluctuations.  This distinction between supply and demand shocks is a critical issue for monetary policy because policy should respond differently, depending on the nature of the shock.  I am particularly curious about the New York Fed’s model, which shows very persistent effects of the financial crisis on output.  In the New York Fed model, does this primarily reflect a decline in potential output or a very persistent output gap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a speech by Mr. Williams praising the work done on a project and asking questions for clarification and further understanding.


Passage number 7.
 MR. DOTSEY.  I am not an expert on FRB/US, so I don’t think I can really say exactly what the weaknesses are of FRB/US versus the DSGE framework.  What I can say is what you alluded to—that the DSGE framework, because of its manageable size and the restrictions associated with forward-looking and optimizing behavior, allows us to, as you said, characterize the shocks.  We can look at impulse-response functions that we know are related to a fundamental type of shock, rather than something that may be just a reduced-form forecast error, and see how that plays through the economy, giving people an idea of how the model works. In regard to gaps, there are numerous ways to construct gaps.  The models themselves don’t find most of those constructions as a first-order part of the model.  So basically, the gaps that most of us can tell you about are where we are relative to the steady-state growth of the economy.  And most of these models were a long way away, between 4 and 10 percent.  Regarding the New York Fed model, I’ll let Marco field the question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 8.
 MR. DEL NEGRO.  I want to clarify a little bit of what Mike said.  Gaps, I think, are an important part of these models.  In fact, getting back to your questions, the headwinds—a slower recovery from the financial crisis—is largely a gap story; it’s not a trend in output now being lower.  It’s a gap caused by shocks that have a very prolonged effect on output, depress economic activity, and therefore keep inflation low.  Now, maybe what Mike was referring to, and you as well, is that there are various ways of measuring gaps.  One is related to the trend in output, and another is relative to a hypothetical universe without nominal rigidities.  Well, the second way is actually very challenging, as shown in a recent paper by Justiniano, Primiceri, and Tambalotti, because it involves a number of conceptual and measurement issues.  We don’t yet have measures of this alternative gap, but it plays a role in the model, and we can certainly provide them to you in due time. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  I want to thank you very much for an excellent presentation, and to applaud the staff’s work in the collaboration that you have going here on DSGE models.  I think it’s extremely valuable, and I agree with you that these models can play a very useful role in medium-term forecasts.  I hope that the Committee will be able to routinely look at forecasts generated by the suite of models you’ve described, along with FRB/US and SIGMA and other models that we have here at the Board. I just want to make one suggestion about something that I would find useful.  I’ve long been a fan of using simple rules as benchmarks for monetary policy.  And I think macroeconomic models can play a key role in formulating and comparing these rules.  President Williams has written important papers showing that, in gauging the performance of simple rules, it is important to use a range of alternative models to help identify rules that would be robust to uncertainty, particularly uncertainty about the structure of the economy, as well as shocks.  So I want to suggest and encourage staff to potentially conduct an analysis of simple monetary policy rules using the DSGE models that you have presented to us today, and we could do the same thing using other models at the Board—FRB/US and SIGMA, which is an open economy DSGE model that’s been developed here.  I know we’ve talked about possibly having a future discussion of monetary policy rules, and I think this would be a potentially useful part of it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 9.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Governor Yellen, we’ve talked a little bit about this, and Philadelphia made a suggestion a while ago to staff that one of our two-day meetings in the future might be about such robust policy rules and variations.  Using these models as input into that exercise might be a way to push these things along together, so I would encourage that.  That’s a great idea. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of agreement and support for an idea proposed by Governor Yellen. President Kocherlakota is endorsing the suggestion made by Philadelphia.


Passage number 10.
   MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just had one quick question for Mike, which is, how do the models capture the large-scale asset purchases and their impact.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Kocherlakota has a question for Mike about how models capture the impact of large-scale asset purchases.


Passage number 11.
 MR. DOTSEY.  First, we don’t have a rich term structure or any type of market segmentation in the asset market.  So with regard to QE2, that’s not going to be done directly.  But there are other studies that we can piggyback on that indicate how much so many hundred billions of dollars of assets move down the 10-year Treasury rate, or whatever maturity you are doing.  And then there are other studies that translate that into a funds rate–type of decision.  Putting it in terms of the funds rate, and perhaps relaxing the zero lower bound constraint would be a way that these models could, in an indirect way, handle that.  QE1 seems different, and that is handled directly in the New York model because when QE1 came along, a lot of spreads went down quite rapidly.  And those do directly affect what is going on in the New York and Chicago models.  For Philadelphia, in the Prism model, it’s going to affect what kind of marginal efficiency of investment shocks we are going to be seeing.  But I regard QE1 and QE2 as two different policies that the models would incorporate in two different ways. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different ways of incorporating the effects of quantitative easing into different economic models.


Passage number 12.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to commend the staff for excellent work here on the DSGE framework, and, of course, I’m a big champion of this kind of work.  I think DSGE models are very useful for organizing our thinking on important aspects of macroeconomic behavior.  The best and most valuable feature is that everything has to add up in the model:  Equilibrium conditions and budget constraints are respected, expectations are treated consistently, and businesses and households are viewed as doing the best they can, given the environment and the prices that they face.  In some sense, DSGE is the only game in town, so it’s really just economic models. The key use is to investigate pet theories.  We policymakers often have a few fundamental driving factors in our minds when thinking about how to interpret macroeconomic events.  One can build a DSGE model with those factors in play, and then see what the implications would be for key macroeconomic variables.  That is very much what is going on here in this set of papers.  Often, perhaps very often, the proposed explanation for the event will not match some key facts.  I do not regard that as a failure so much as a key piece of information.  It is very informative because it suggests where the theory is right and where it needs improvement, and it helps modify our thinking relative to our priors that are embodied in our pet theories.  So at its best, this process can be extremely valuable in making the types of judgments that have to be made around this table. One remark that I do have, and I want to get your comment on, is that I do not think forecasting is necessarily a good metric for models like this.  Macroeconomic systems have a certain amount of ambient noise in them.  Because of this noise, there will always be clear limits to how well we can forecast.  We do not really forecast the economy at all.  We really track the economy in an engineering sense.  And when we have to predict, we naturally predict that the variables that are away from their means will simply return to their means.  So better forecasting may not be a reasonable expectation for this class of models, or really for any models, that we might write down.  The goal, instead, is better policy.  An alternative policy may deliver dramatically better outcomes for households, even though the forecastability of the economy has not improved at all.  That is, under policy A, we would obtain one equilibrium outcome, and under policy B, a different equilibrium outcome, and one of these two possibilities may be strongly preferred to the other.  But the forecastability is the same in both cases due to the ambient noise, and due to the fact that a good forecast will actually change behavior in the economy—we are talking about forward-looking businesses and households in the economy—and that will reduce forecastability.  There are going to be limits to how well you are going to be able to forecast in a macroeconomic system.  DSGE models, at their best, can be very useful in identifying better policy interventions, even when there is no improvement in forecastability.  I don’t know what you think about that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing support for DSGE models and their usefulness for understanding macroeconomic behavior. The speaker also acknowledges the limitations of forecasting in macroeconomic systems.


Passage number 13.
 MR. DOTSEY.  I agree with part of it, and I disagree with part of it.  I agree with you that forecasting should not be the only emphasis on these models.  These are small models that are tightly parameterized.  I don’t share Mike Kiley’s view that the glass is half empty.  I say, “The glass is half full,” and that these models, as tightly parameterized as they are, and not taking account of all the additional degrees of freedom that the big models have, are doing about as well.  However, if they were forecasting so abominably that we thought that they had no attachment with reality, then we might want to step back and ask, “Do we really want to use these models for any of the other things they are designed to do.”  The fact that they are forecasting about as well as reduced form models, which is pretty good, suggests that they are in an area where they can do the types of experiments you want and be informative as well. So I agree with the general thrust of what you are saying, but I think forecasting still is somewhat important.  I think the Committee would not want to pay attention to models that couldn’t forecast at all.  For instance, if we did the Great Recession exercise, and we all found out that technology shocks were driving the entire Great Recession, you might ask, “Well, why would I want to look at these models for analyzing anything that looked like a banking crisis in any detail.”  But we didn’t find that, so that’s reassuring. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: In this passage, there is agreement and disagreement expressed by Mr. Dotsey. He agrees with the general thrust of what the other person is saying, but also disagrees with Mike Kiley's view. Therefore, there is both contention and agreement in the passage.


Passage number 14.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to thank all of the staff that contributed to this project.  I agree that it’s a great example of collaboration.  I’ve heard accounts of how things are going in Chicago, and I think that it’s been very exciting that people have been working so well together. I’m very sympathetic to the comments that President Bullard just made, and it makes me think about what the role of judgment is in so much of our analysis, and on the occasion of Dave Stockton’s last meeting, I think it is right to think about how important judgment is.  As I think about how the staff forecast is put together, there are a lot of different analyses that need to be taken into account in order to put together the type of forecast that’s very difficult to get out of a model, even one as flexible as FRB/US or one like the DSGE models.  But I think that the FRB/US model and the DSGE models can help inform how those analyses and forecasts evolve, if not quarter by quarter, then over time, and to get the story.  What I like so much about the DSGE models, at least in terms of how we think about it in our Bank, is that they tell a story about how things are playing out in the economy.  There’s really a beginning and a middle and an end to this story.  There’s a beginning that starts off with the exogenous impulse, the shock, however you want to characterize it.  There’s a middle:  There’s the propagation that the model grinds out.  And there’s an end as the economy goes through the transition to the longer-term resting point.  I think it’s very valuable to understand some of the stories that these models can tell, and I agree with Jim that it may not generate the best forecast, but it helps us with better policy thinking. Getting to my question, here’s an example that I’m thinking we might struggle with over the coming meetings or longer.  Coming through the expansion in the middle of the past decade, we saw strong growth, and we thought that that was associated with higher potential output, a higher level of output.  Then we get to the Great Recession, and we have these shocks, financial in nature, and other factors, which led to a dramatic recession, and now the models are telling us there’s a big gap.  But I think we’re going to be wondering, if we haven’t already, what about the 1970s.  What about policymaking during that time period, when policy was highly accommodative for a long period of time.  Was it to achieve something that ultimately wasn’t achievable, a higher growth rate.  Athanasios Orphanides and others have looked at that period and seen that potential output wasn’t as high as we thought.  I think these models can help inform how the current story may or may not play out.  I understand that our measures of the output gap are highly uncertain, but for each of those uncertain estimates, the model will tell a different story as to what those shocks are that led to a lower level of potential output beginning in the middle of the past decade.  I think that these kinds of analyses can help us with that.  We’ll probably have to continue to innovate on the models, but I wonder if you have a reaction to that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is discussing the use of models in economic analysis and does not present any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 15.
 MR. DOTSEY.  I think that’s very similar to what Governor Yellen alluded to in terms of robustness.  Certainly, measurement error can be introduced into these models, and then robust rules in the style that John Williams’s research has explored over a number of years can be undertaken, given the kinds of uncertainty we might have about measuring a gap or even what conceptually we think a gap is.  I think these models can certainly deal with what kind of rules would be most beneficial under those types of uncertainty.  A lot of John’s work was in a linear rational expectations environment and some of it was in a learning environment, and both of those types of environments are amenable to the scale of models that we have on the table. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing and acknowledging the work of John Williams in relation to robust rules in economic models.


Passage number 16.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you.  I, too, want to commend the staff.  This is an excellent use of your time and energy, and I found it very useful.  These might not be at the ideal state we’d want them to be at and are certainly not ready to fully supplant FRB/US in our arsenal, and I’m not sure we’d ever want to.  But to me they look like they provide a really excellent complement to what we have, and I would encourage you to keep working at this and give us some practice with it. I think you’re right about the advantages of this.  I agree with what President Bullard and President Evans said, that the coherence of these models offers a tremendous advantage.  They’re internally consistent.  There’s a clear narrative that emerges, and you can take the narrative to the real world, and you can say, “All right.  Do I see this element of the narrative in the real world.”  One way to think about these models is as an artificial world.  It’s like Second Life or these online universes, only you guys haven’t done the graphics engines yet.  [Laughter]  The way to work with them is this interplay between looking at the model, seeing what it’s telling you, looking at reality, going back and maybe changing the model or reinterpreting the model—and I think that practice with that is what’s going to both improve the model and give us a better sense of how to use it. In reading the memos, I found myself in unfamiliar terrain because we’re used to talking about macroeconomic conditions and the macroeconomic outlook using a certain kind of language, but we’re not used to saying “marginal efficiency of investment.”  I mean, you don’t see Larry Meyer saying “marginal efficiency of investment” or “risk premium shocks” very often.  So I think, while we know how useful these models are, it’s going to take some practice in terms of thinking in the categories that the models lead you to think within. I have a question, and this is more for Dave Reifschneider than you, but your reaction would be useful as well.  It has to do with this limitation you cited, that they’re not large scale yet, and it made me think back to an article Chris Sims wrote many years ago about the Board’s forecasting procedure.  He said that it’s articulated at such a disaggregate level that you can compare model behavior in individual sectors with industry analysts, and you get this interplay between model and industry analysts.  Now, you don’t have the chemical industry per se or anything at that level of detail, although in certain cases, like housing, you do have individual sectors.  I was just wondering how much of a limitation you think that is. That said, I commend you guys for doing this.  I think it would be useful for us to see this on a regular basis, like two or four times a year, and to get this kind of a package.  Maybe we wouldn’t need to spend as much time on it because you’ve introduced us to the structure, but we could take a little time to work it into our practice.  I think that would be really valuable.  I’d just emphasize one thing, and this harkens back to discussions we had about two years ago.  There really isn’t an alternative to models.  This goes with what President Bullard said.  The advantage of these things is that you put the cards on the table.  If you have a narrative, if you are telling a story, if you think you know or have a sense of what’s likely to happen, you’ve got a model in your head.  These at least have the benefit of putting everything about it on the table and checking that it’s an internally consistent model.  With that, I’d be interested in a response to the question about scale.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker expresses agreement with the staff's work and commends them for their efforts. They also express the need for practice and familiarity with the models, but there is no disagreement or contention present in the passage.


Passage number 17.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Scale is a difficult issue because the interests of the FOMC are very diverse, and one might think, “Oh, to handle all the sorts of questions that come up, we’d have to build this gigantic thing.”  And FRB/US is pretty big, but it does not have the scale that covers all the questions the Committee does.  So we have to supplement FRB/US with a lot of other types of analyses.  Some of that we can do in DSGE models.  When we go with SIGMA, for example, we’re doing a lot of international analysis, and we’re using a different model for that because it’s well designed for answering those sorts of questions.  EDO also does a better job of handling certain things, such as how you’re interpreting data in real time, or doing signal extraction about what’s really going on in the supply side, or what might be going on with risk premiums or things like that.  That’s a statement that all sorts of different models bring different things to the table.  That’s also why, in preparing the staff forecast, we use single equation models, we use reduced form models, we use special-purpose models—we do all sorts of thing.  We’ve been maintaining a tradition of trying to not pile all our eggs in one basket, which some other central banks, particularly smaller central banks, have had to do because they have limited staff resources.  We’ve had the luxury, between both the Board and the System as a whole, of being able to maintain a variety of models, pose a variety of questions, and get a variety of analyses, and I think that’s a strength. At some point you face the question, if you are dealing with a workhorse model, of what’s the minimal set of things that has to be in it to be useful for the Committee.  We faced that with FRB/US; we didn’t put in everything, but we put in a great deal.  I don’t know that a workhorse model has to be as big as FRB/US; it doesn’t have to have as many bells and whistles.  It’s possible—and I think this is what we have been doing in recent years—that we can do the job with multiple models as opposed to relying solely on one model.  Along those lines, if you think about the forecasting process underlying the Tealbook analysis that we’ve been giving the Committee over the past couple of years or so, it is informed by FRB/US and EDO as well as a whole bunch of other things.  FRB/US, EDO, and SIGMA also appear in the Alternative Scenarios, and EDO and FRB/US are used in Book B analyses et cetera.  So we’re using a range of models, and it’s a question of what tool seems most useful for the particular question at hand.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is a statement explaining the use of different models and tools in the forecasting process.


Passage number 18.
 MR. DOTSEY.  I agree exactly with David.  I won’t reiterate.  You eloquently, probably more than I, indicated what some of the strengths of these models are, but I think that they are still a bit too small.  For example, fiscal policies are problematic; these models don’t have distortionary taxation and details along those lines.  We’re also building better financial intermediation sectors, which are really important, and there may be a few other things.  Do we have to go to the level of a chemical industry.  Probably not, and we would lose the transparency that these models can give that’s so important.  But like Dave just indicated, I think the group involved in the project views our work as complementary work for the Committee; these models have certain strengths, and we’d like to make them available to the Committee.  And you have other models that have other strengths, and like you’re saying, you should be looking at more than one thing because we don’t have the model of the United States economy or the world economy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Dotsey is expressing agreement with David and highlighting some areas where he believes the models could be improved, but there is no disagreement or argument taking place. President Kocherlakota's response is not provided in the passage.


Passage number 19.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll, first of all, second what others have said, that this was a really excellent piece of staff work.  I spent the week reading through it very carefully with the help of my research director, Kei-Mu Yi, and we learned a tremendous amount in part because people were really generous with their time in answering all of our questions.  We really appreciate it.  I wanted to follow up on something that Governor Yellen and President Lacker said about what would be interesting to see going forward.  I think it would be great for the group of workers on this project, as well as the Committee, to see output from this project, I would say, on a quarterly basis—not as much as we saw here, but something more concise along the lines of, What’s the forecast.  What’s the story behind the forecast.  I could imagine a report of about a page and a half that would be pretty useful. A couple of quick comments about why this would be useful, beyond the fact that I think that we don’t have the model of the U.S. economy and seeing things from a wider range of models would be good along those lines:  One is something that Governor Warsh mentioned last year, and I thought it was a great point.  Governor Warsh was struggling with how to get Reserve Bank economists more integrated into the process of thinking about the FOMC; this project is one way this can happen because we already have that kind of interaction taking place, and I think that would be fantastic.  The other thing that I’ll emphasize about these models—and Mike, quite rightly, I think, has pointed to some of their failings or deficiencies—is that I am really impressed with how fast people have been able to build on them in the past two or three years, especially in light of events.  You don’t want to think, in our constantly changing environment, about a model as being a static object; it’s more of a dynamic process.  We’re always going to be building and adding onto it, and these models have proven very amenable to that process, in part, I think, because of their structure, but also in part because this is what the people in academics are really good at using.  For instance, Mike was mentioning the fact that the models that were being used within the current DSGE group don’t have unemployment.  Well, there’s a very nice paper that just came out, I guess, a couple of months ago by Galí, Smets, and Wouters that is a DSGE framework that builds in unemployment.  I think that we’re going to be able to build better models through our interactions with the academe by having this kind of model, or a suite of models, as Governor Yellen said, that we constantly use.  I think the dialogue about what we want to see and what this group can provide would be better if we start to see something from them on an ongoing basis.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with the previous speakers and suggesting that the group should provide regular output on their project.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 20.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Mr. Chairman, can I just make one comment.  One of the concerns about the floor system that I didn’t mention earlier is that under a floor system, we don’t know for sure what will happen to the fed funds market, whether or not it will survive, and therefore whether or not we can keep a rate depending on whether that says an active market when there are plenty of reserves.  I don’t know the answer to that question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. 

Explanation: The speaker, Mr. Plosser, expresses concern about the uncertainty surrounding the survival of the fed funds market under a floor system. This indicates disagreement or disagreement with the notion of implementing a floor system.


Passage number 21.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think we do know that, because we have a federal funds market even today, with a balance sheet that is much bigger than what we would operate under a floor system.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is presenting a factual observation about the existence of a federal funds market and the size of its balance sheet.


Passage number 22.
 MR. PLOSSER.  But the volumes are way down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply states a fact that the volumes are down without any contrasting or conflicting information.


Passage number 23.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Right.  But I think we have a balance sheet today that is far greater than what we would have under any reasonable floor system that we would think to operate.  And we haven’t flooded the market, so I don’t think that’s a fair comparison. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply expressing their opinion about the balance sheet and the market without contradicting or opposing any other viewpoint.


Passage number 24.
 MR. LACKER.  I view the Vice Chairman’s proposed language change about “the smallest balance sheet consistent with” as attractive because it is attempting to commit to avoiding the kind of credit allocation that would come from expanding our balance sheet at a given funds rate, which is one of the major concerns.  In your straw poll, I was wondering if you could find a way to have that be an option. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  Let’s firm up the language.  It was, “and the associated quantity of bank reserves are expected to be reduced to levels”—“the smallest levels consistent with the efficient implementation . . .”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker is expressing his agreement with the proposed language change and suggesting it be included as an option in the straw poll.


Passage number 25.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That would be fine. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  I’ll come back to that in just a second.  I’m aware of Arrow’s voting paradoxes and all that.  [Laughter]  So what I would like to do is the following.  I’m going to ask for a straw vote on the original two propositions, and then we’ll take the winner and ask if we would like to compare it with this alternative language.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is presenting a plan or proposal and humorously mentioning their awareness of a potential issue (Arrow's voting paradoxes), which elicits laughter from the audience. Overall, the tone seems collaborative and there is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 26.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman, I think if we went to the minimum size of the balance sheet, then there would be no difference between the two systems.  Is that right, or very little difference.  There’s a point of continuity there. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I knew this was going to happen.  [Laughter]  The efficient implementation of monetary policy suggests that if there are substantial benefits from a floor system in payments and in reducing volatility and so on, then the smallest balance sheet would be consistent with a floor system. All right.  Debbie, will you help me count.  Those in favor of the original language:  “near its target,” without referring to a corridor system.  [Show of hands]  Okay.  So the majority are in favor of that. Then, we want to compare that with the following language:  “The associated quantity of bank reserves are expected to be reduced to the smallest levels that would be consistent with the efficient implementation of monetary policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is presenting different options and seeking input from others, but there is no clear disagreement or conflict.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 27.
” MR. PLOSSER.  Can I question the word “efficient” here.  What do we mean by that.  What are the criteria to decide what “efficient” is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It leaves the possibilities open.  On the one hand it says that if we were to go to a floor system, we would have the smallest balance sheet that would allow that system to work properly.  But “efficient implementation” means that we would have to judge that that smallest balance sheet version of the floor system is effective in maintaining the funds rate near the target, minimizing volatility, and achieving collateral benefits like improved payment systems and the like. All right.  Who favors the change that I just described:  “reduced to the smallest levels that would be consistent with the efficient implementation of monetary policy”.  Can I see hands, please.  [Show of hands]  Okay.  I guess that’s going to be a compromise.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser questions the definition of "efficient" and expresses uncertainty about how to judge it. This suggests that there may be differing opinions or perspectives on what is considered efficient in the context of implementing monetary policy.


Passage number 28.
  MR. FISHER.  I would just ask for clarification whether this does not rule out our going to a corridor system. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Absolutely not.  In fact, my own personal view is that it’s likely the preferred system.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 29.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota, a word on your amendments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 30.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Sure.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My proposed change was grounded in my feeling that when we remove this phrase “extended period,” it will be a very important step for the Committee in the process of exit.  I was concerned about the fact that, at least in my own mind, I was not clear about what that step is supposed to be communicating.  I felt it was important, as best we can, to have some kind of shared understanding of what that step would mean.  I have offered, by way of change, my own interpretation of what that step would mean.  It could be that, as we will find out shortly, there is sufficient lack of consensus on this point and that we don’t want to finalize it at this time.  But I my main point is that I think we should have some clarity about what this step would mean as part of the exit process.  In terms of my own thinking about it, what it would mean to me is that at that point, we would be anticipating that the first increase would be two to four meetings out. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Is there anyone who, conditional on making this change, would prefer a different time than three to six months.  Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  I have a difficulty with President Kocherlakota’s interpretation of “extended period,” although I completely agree with him that it’s appropriate for us to discuss and clarify what we mean.  I don’t think that dropping “extended period” should imply that the Committee anticipates raising the target funds rate in three to six months.  I would, instead, say that it means it will be at least three to six months.  It could be a lot longer, because my interpretation is that when we include “extended period” language in the statement, we are saying the FOMC sees very low probability that it will need to tighten in three to six months, or two to four meetings.  Once the probability has risen sufficiently that we think we might need to tighten—but we could be talking about a probability that is a lot lower than 50 percent—then it becomes appropriate to drop the language to give the Committee flexibility to move as needed.  But when we drop it, we may not anticipate moving.  The odds may be lower than 50 percent.  And, in fact, the funds rate target could well—depending on how things materialize—stay exceptionally low for a very long time, even though we got rid of the language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. President Kocherlakota believes that removing the phrase "extended period" is an important step in the exit process and suggests that it would mean anticipating a rate increase in two to four meetings. However, Governor Yellen disagrees and believes that dropping the phrase does not imply an anticipated rate increase in three to six months, but rather that it will be at least three to six months before any tightening occurs.


Passage number 31.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Governor Yellen, are you proposing to add the words “at least” before the word “three”.  Is that the substance of the proposal. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Conditional on making the change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 32.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I am perfectly happy with that as an amendment, if that’s the nature of the amendment.  I don’t have a problem with that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Pretty substantively different.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker expresses agreement and does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 33.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I agree with Governor Yellen’s statement because, exactly as she says, saying that you are not going to keep the federal funds rate low for an extended period does not necessarily mean you are going to tighten three to six months later.  It depends on the data. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We don’t need to have a complete debate about it.  [Laughter]  Give us a chance to vote.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage shows agreement without any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 34.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I’m a little bit concerned about symmetry here.  The Chairman at one point last year talked about “extended period,” and we gave the example where, in the Greenspan era, they dropped some language that they changed the very next meeting.  Could we be in an environment where we didn’t want to wait that long—that things would change, and we may have to move sooner than three months.  I’m a little bit worried about the asymmetry that you are building into it that might put us at risk of not moving as fast as we might have to. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It does say “anticipates.”  But that’s fine.  By the way, when asked about this, without a great deal of forethought, in my press conference in April, I said “a couple of meetings,” which is about three months, but it could be more, obviously.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you.  Mr. Chairman, I just want to remind the Committee that what we are discussing here are exit strategy principles and not concrete intentions.  And whether or not there are any conceptual concerns with the addition of Narayana’s sentence, I would say that it does somewhat stick out from a tonal perspective in the sense that it reflects a current anticipation and a precise number of months.  If you look through the tone of the principles, there really is nowhere else where we indicate with precision what exactly the timing would be.  One possible way of moving through this is to pick up the “probable” language that we use in paragraph 5, where we indicate “probably within a few months” and tack that onto the end of the first sentence in paragraph 4, where we could then indicate that it would probably be within a half-year, or whatever it is, after the modification of the forward guidance.  I think that would be more consistent with the tone of the set of principles that we’re talking about. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I understand that point, but “probably within a few months” is likely shorter than most people would want to say. MS. RASKIN.  I would suggest, “probably within a half-year after the modification of the forward guidance.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser is expressing concern about the asymmetry and potential risk of not moving as fast as necessary, while Ms. Raskin is suggesting a different approach that she believes would be more consistent with the tone of the principles being discussed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 35.
 MR. FISHER.  I have problems with the ritualistic sequencing of all this.  We’ll talk about that later.  But in this case, just to take your concern, Governor Yellen, and Mr. Plosser’s excellent point, I would just say, “When economic conditions warrant, the Committee will begin raising its target for the federal funds rate.”  We don’t know if we’re going to do it within one month, three months, or six months.  Why are we pinning ourselves down here.  And then we create expectations.  Even saying “a couple of meetings,” Mr. Chairman, again—with all due respect—we’ll do it when it’s appropriate.  So why not simplify the language.  I respect President Kocherlakota immensely, but I think we are making this much more complicated than we should.  I would simply have it say, “When economic conditions warrant, the Committee will begin raising its target for the fed funds rate.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, that’s the status quo, basically.  Let me take President Rosengren and President Bullard, if I could ask your indulgence, and then we could go to the vote.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher expresses his problems with the current approach and suggests a simpler language.


Passage number 36.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  My preference would be to have no timing in this set of principles.  This is a sequence discussion, and I’m very comfortable with the sequence, but I’m less comfortable the more we tie it to timing.  And the more we tie it to timing, the harder it’s going to be to get a consensus on when the timing should start.  So I think we should think carefully about hardwiring the timing.  The more language we put in here that gets into timing, the more likely it is that we are going to have a discontinuity.  I really think this should be a sequencing, not a timing, discussion. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Rosengren is expressing his preference for the discussion to focus on sequencing rather than timing, as he believes that adding language about timing will make it more difficult to reach a consensus. President Bullard's response is not provided in the passage.


Passage number 37.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  I’ll also be brief.  I’ll agree with President Rosengren and President Fisher that it’s not so clear why we want to tie this down.  At the time that we make such a decision, we’ll want to assess economic conditions and give an indication that the Committee currently anticipates a certain timing.  That seems to me to be the way the Committee has operated in the past, and it would make a lot of sense in this circumstance. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Let’s go to a straw vote.  How many would like to retain the existing language, which says, “When economic conditions warrant, the Committee’s next step in the process of policy normalization will be to begin raising its target for the federal funds rate, and from that point on, changing the level,” and it does not make reference to three to six months.  How many prefer that approach.  [Show of hands]  Okay.  So, I think, Narayana, you’re outvoted.  Your point about clarity is a good one, and these are actually very subtle points, because if you are, for example, interested in providing more accommodation, saying that it will be at least three months is one way.  However, I think the Committee has spoken on that. So we have a document.  We have 20 minutes or so, and I am going to ask each participant to say, first, if you can broadly accept this.  If you have a couple of objections to things that are not your first best but you’re still willing to accept it, of course, you can say that.  If you have some reason that you cannot accept it, then explain what that is.  We’ll keep track of that and try to put together an appropriate summary for the minutes, which of course will be subject to the Committee’s vote and approval.  Let me begin with President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is agreeing with President Rosengren and President Fisher on the topic being discussed.


Passage number 38.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I am very happy with this document.  I thank you, Mr. Chairman and the staff, for preparing it.  I think it’s a very valuable practice for us to continue to do this, to summarize consensus as we develop it, at least for internal purposes.  I realize this will not be released publicly, but we can even think about going to the next step, of releasing such consensus publicly.  But at least for our internal purposes, I think it’s great to do these summaries, and I’m very happy with the document as is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.
Explanation: The speaker, Mr. Kocherlakota, expresses his satisfaction with the document and thanks the chairman and staff for preparing it. He also suggests considering the possibility of releasing such consensus publicly. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 39.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m not sure if Richard and Eric would extend their observations to the other time parameters that are in here:  “At same time or relatively soon thereafter.”  I’m slightly uncomfortable with those, but if there’s a consensus around the language that’s in here, I’m happy to go with it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve contention or disagreement. Mr. Tarullo expresses his slight discomfort with certain time parameters, but states that he is willing to go with the consensus if there is one.


Passage number 40.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I agree with Governor Tarullo.  The goal is to communicate sequence but maintain the flexibility to react to changes in economic conditions.  I’m very comfortable with the sequence that’s laid out in this memo, but I prefer basically no time subscripts in the document.  So let me just give one example.  My own personal preference would be to shrink the balance sheet first and allow time to pass so that the ability to affect interest rates is enhanced.  If instead we decide to tie the end of reinvesting to the ending of forward guidance, I would then want to end the reinvesting at a later time than I would if they were not tied.  So my personal preference would be, for example, in paragraph 3, to change the phrase “At the same time or relatively soon thereafter,” and make that the word “next,” so it would read, “Next, the Committee will modify its forward guidance.”  And then in paragraph 5, in the second line, I’d like to take out “probably within a few months” and just leave the actual timing to be figured out, depending on economic conditions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Are you amenable to the whole document collectively.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Rosengren is expressing his personal preference, which differs from the current approach outlined in the memo. He suggests changing specific phrases and timing in the document.


Passage number 41.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I’m comfortable with the document.  I could go with it as it is, but my preference would be to take out the time dimension. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  A couple of participants have raised the time dimension issue, and President Rosengren pointed out two places.  If there are others who have similar concerns, I think they should probably say so.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Rosengren, expresses his preference for removing the time dimension from a document but also states that he is comfortable with it as it is. The passage then asks if there are others who have similar concerns, indicating a desire for discussion and input, but it does not indicate any disagreement or contention between the participants.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 42.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I’m in favor, as is President Rosengren and I sense Governor Tarullo, of taking all time references out; I think it unnecessarily binds us.  So I wouldn’t include “probably within a few months” in the fifth paragraph and “over a period of four to five years” in the sixth paragraph.  Any reference to time, I think, puts us in a straitjacket, and conditions may well change.  I know no one at this table who five years ago expected us to be where we are today.  So it just doesn’t make sense to me to have a specific time reference, and that would be my first point.  I’m a little uncomfortable, possibly out of ignorance, as to whether it makes sense to declare that we would raise rates first and then sell.  It might incur losses.  It might move the yield curve.  I would like to say, in paragraph 5, “Sales of agency securities from the SOMA will likely commence sometime after the first increase in the target for the federal funds rate,” but then go on to say, “though the timing of sales,” and then use the very last part of that sentence, “could be adjusted in response to material changes in the economic outlook or financial conditions.”  To me that’s operationally a commonsense way to phrase it, rather than saying “probably within a few months.” In summary, I would like all time references to be taken out.  I think that’s a sensible thing to do.  I would also suggest an editorial change in the fifth paragraph in that it allows us at least the opportunity to adjust the timing.  In the language in paragraph 5, I would say, “Sales of agency securities from the SOMA will likely commence sometime after the first increase in the target for the federal funds rate, though the timing of the sales could be adjusted in response to material changes in the economic outlook or financial conditions.”  I think we need to be as opportunistic going out as we were going in.  I understand the need for us to have a sense of what our priorities are, but I don’t want to be locked in, in case economic or financial opportunities present themselves.  And to me, that would be a sensible way to write that sentence or that paragraph. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  If others share this view, I think we should just downplay the timing issues in our discussion in the minutes.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage because Mr. Fisher disagrees with including specific time references in the fifth and sixth paragraphs. He argues that it unnecessarily restricts the committee and that conditions may change. He suggests removing all time references and instead using a more flexible and opportunistic approach. He also suggests an editorial change in the fifth paragraph to allow for the timing of sales to be adjusted based on changes in the economic outlook or financial conditions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 43.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m not very comfortable with this timing sequence.  As you know, I prefer a more explicit LIFO or last in–first out exit strategy than the one outlined in this “Exit Strategy Principles” document.  The principles do call for a balance sheet–first strategy in that the first step is to cease or reduce reinvestment.  I would follow that step with asset sales and manage the balance sheet down in a state-contingent manner. My judgment is that the recent asset purchases and the associated buildup of the size of the balance sheet had a fairly clear effect on expected inflation in the United States.  This policy helped us avoid the mildly deflationary outcome that Japan has experienced over the past decade or more.  Inflation has moved higher and more quickly than would have been predicted without the asset purchases.  I do not think that these purchases were neutral, and I do not expect asset sales to be neutral.  I think it would be a bit more prudent to sell assets first and in relatively small amounts and then gauge the effects in a state-contingent manner.  This would be a balance sheet tightening as opposed to what we’ve got in the exit principles.  We could then change language and raise rates somewhat later in the process if we did it this way.  I think this would keep expectations in check while rates continue to remain at zero.  It would also dovetail with the reserve reduction in the System that will help us on the day when we want to actually raise rates.  The outlined strategy puts sales essentially on an autopilot basis.  As I see it, there’s not very much that’s optimal about that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’m going to take that as a no.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard expresses his discomfort with the outlined exit strategy and prefers a different approach. He believes that selling assets first and in small amounts would be a more prudent and optimal strategy, contrasting with the autopilot basis of the outlined strategy.


Passage number 44.
  [Laughter] MR. BULLARD.  That’s a no. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The presence of laughter suggests a light and agreeable atmosphere. Additionally, Mr. Bullard's response of "That's a no" further confirms the absence of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 45.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m comfortable with this approach.  I actually think it does represent what I heard to be the consensus at the April meeting.  I am sympathetic to the point that Presidents Rosengren and Fisher brought up about being somewhat uncomfortable with the very specific timing, and I think it’s probably better to stick with the general principles of the sequencing, and I would agree with removing “probably within a few months” and the other case where we’re being very specific on timing.  I agree with the general idea of how the sequencing should go, but I will mention just one comment.  I think you and we all will be asked for the rationale behind this particular sequencing of steps.  So here we are agreeing on what the sequence is, but I know that we all will be asked by reporters why we chose one instead of another, and I think we should have some more discussion, perhaps, about that.  I’ll give you one example.  This may seem to be a no-brainer to some—maybe I’m just overthinking this or just not thinking hard enough about this, but I’m still not 100 percent clear on why reinvestments is the obvious first action out of the blocks.  Maybe if we have time at some point, we could have a discussion about not only what the right sequence is, but also what the talking points are regarding why this makes the most sense. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I have a couple of reactions to that.  One is that stopping reinvestment is a relatively passive thing.  It doesn’t involve us actually going out and making sales.  We don’t take capital losses.  It doesn’t address nearly so directly the concerns about the MBS market being relatively oversupplied during this period.  So it seems like a more passive way to go, and, therefore, something that’s worth doing.  It also has the benefit, over a period of time, of bringing the balance sheet down.  I think one obvious argument—and I understand President Bullard’s point—for raising rates first is that if you rely on balance sheet contraction as your primary tightening tool, given market-based limits and so forth on how fast you can do that, then you push the first increase in the funds rate off quite a while potentially, and there are people, including President Hoenig and others, who think that the very low rate has damaging effects on financial stability.  That’s a tradeoff that I think some participants at least would not like. President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I am very comfortable with this broad set of exit strategy principles.  I agree with the sequencing of steps in the normalization of policy, but I also favor, as others have already mentioned, removing the time references to give us more flexibility.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. The speakers express their agreement with the sequencing and principles of the exit strategy, but also suggest removing specific timing references for more flexibility. There is a discussion about the rationale behind certain steps, but it does not result in contention or disagreement.


Passage number 46.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I prefer last in, first out, and never using reserve draining tools.  Otherwise, I can support this [laughter], and I’m not troubled by the timing references.  I think we’re trying to say what we agree on, and I think the timing references that are in there are things you can agree on.  The ones we couldn’t vote to put in were ones we didn’t agree on.  So I can support the adoption of these principles even though I’d prefer something much different. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker states that they can support the adoption of the principles, even though they personally prefer a different approach.


Passage number 47.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I, too, support the principles here.  I just finding myself feeling that—and I hope this isn’t too cavalier, but—this is close enough for government work at this time.  I think we have so much to learn in this process.  There are so many unknowns that, at this juncture, I would posit some principles that we agree on without pinning ourselves down to, particularly, timing.  The sequencing here is logical, although I think it may be highly compressed when the first steps are made because the market will react and tightening will have begun in the longer rates.  I also would hope—my own personal view—that by getting this out through the press conference or however, we will reduce the chatter about exit among ourselves and in the market because I think it’s not an appropriate time for continuing chatter.  I have sympathy with the arguments regarding the corridor outcome largely because it’s the most familiar, but again, I agreed with the earlier decision.  And finally, we haven’t talked about this much, but I think President Plosser suggested three to five years if we’re going to have an explicit time frame in the document for asset sales purposes.  I thought that also made sense simply by buying more time because we don’t know exactly how long it’s going to take.  So overall, I am supportive of these.  I think this will do the job for the time being. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 48.
 MR. HOENIG.  Mr. Chairman, I like this, thank you.  I don’t think it will end the discussion, but I think it will clarify things for people and will be very helpful, and I hope it is public as quickly as you can feel comfortable doing it.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses gratitude and appreciation for something and hopes for its quick public availability.


Passage number 49.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support these principles in general.  I do agree with President Rosengren’s suggestions about taking out the timing.  On item 3, I caved on that one.  I didn’t like it, but I couldn’t find better words than that.  I suppose “next” is pretty good on that link.  I think in general the sequencing here is quite good.  I didn’t like any tight links between certain actions.  They were stronger than I’d liked, and the conditionality is very appropriate here.  I can fully support this. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses general support for the principles and agrees with President Rosengren's suggestion. The speaker also mentions that they did not like one item but ultimately agreed with it and overall supports the sequencing and conditionality of the actions.


Passage number 50.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m generally supportive.  I think this is a big step forward in informing the public about how we’re thinking about this, and putting this out as a public document in some form will be very helpful.  Obviously, I still prefer a corridor system.  I wish we could make that more explicit.  I have one other suggestion in terms of the timing issues.  I’m comfortable with taking them out, but if we take them out, as President Fisher said, we should also take out the “four to five years” as well as the “few months” or the “relatively soon thereafter.”  Those should come out as well because we may be faster than that or longer than that.  It would be fine with me if all those would come out.  I would like to make one other suggestion, and this is basically for clarity.  In paragraph 5 where it says in the last sentence, “but it could be adjusted in response to material changes,” I would like to see that “be adjusted up or down,” to be explicit that the Committee could choose to speed up sales or slow them down—just add “up or down” after “adjusted” to be clear that they understand they could go both ways. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That seems like a friendly amendment.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses general support for the idea but also suggests some changes for clarification and to remove specific timeframes. These suggestions are presented as friendly amendments, indicating that they are not intended to provoke disagreement or argument.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 51.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman.  Could I just make it clear that I support taking out all the time references in every paragraph.  “Five years” and the “three years.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher supports taking out all the time references, while the Vice Chairman's stance on this matter is not mentioned.


Passage number 52.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I’m comfortable with the memo as amended.  I agree with taking out the time references.  I think the only time reference that one might want to continue to include is the “over a period of four to five years,” but I think that’s too narrow, four to five years, because as this plays out, if you ended reinvestment and the agencies are writing off for several years, you might want to have a broader range.  So I’m completely happy with how the Committee decides.  I don’t feel strongly about it, but I think that one is a little different than the other time references. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support the proposed exit strategy principles.  My preference is to remove the time references in line with President Rosengren’s suggestion, but I saw including the more specific time frames as an attempt to compromise.  I do think it is very valuable to reach consensus here.  I think, if we can endorse a consensus view, it will simplify our communications, reassure markets, and enhance the predictability of market responses to our actions.  I think this is very worthwhile.  I’d prefer no timing references but could live with it as is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support the sequencing with the elimination of all the time references.  My only concern with the document was that, as written, taking step 2 engages the gears for step 3, and taking step 4 engages the gears for steps 5 and 6—it seems like that would make it difficult to calibrate and maybe even to begin the exit strategy.  So without those, I’m fully in support of it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I am broadly comfortable with the approach set forth. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you all very much.  This turned out to be very helpful.  [Laughter]  I appreciate the comments.  When asked, in fact, I think I will say a little bit about this in the press conference, with a strong caveat that this does not imply immediate implementation of this exit.  I have heard very clearly, I think, from a majority that we should take out timing references, and so I will do that in my public communication.  I suggest as a next step that the staff might try to rewrite this a little bit and see if it can gain the same level of support or even more support than it had today.  If it does, we could consider making it an addendum to the minutes.  If not, or if there are enough serious concerns, then the alternative is to describe the basic points with the appropriate “most” or “all” or whatever, as it applies.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. All of the speakers express support for the proposed exit strategy principles and agree on the importance of reaching a consensus. While there are some slight differences in opinion on specific details, such as the inclusion of time references, overall, there is agreement on the general approach.


Passage number 53.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes, I heard that there might be support for actually making it an addendum to the minutes—something pretty close to what we actually talked about. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, I’m much more optimistic about that than I was an hour ago.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses support and optimism for making something an addendum to the minutes, indicating agreement with the previous statement.


Passage number 54.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Is your proposal to circulate something tomorrow. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I certainly don’t want to get involved in an editing session here, given the time constraints and so on.  Why don’t we simply send out something soon, get feedback, make a judgment about whether or not we’ve made a Pareto improvement on this existing document, and then, based on that overall assessment, we can decide how to proceed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It is discussing a proposal and suggesting a way to proceed with it.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 55.
 MR. FISHER.  Just a thought—in terms of what you say tomorrow, which I think is very, very important, I would say as little as possible about this subject unless you’re pressed, and the reason for that is, first, we made substantial progress, but we still have more to go in terms of complete consensus, and second, we can get into this later when we get briefed on financial markets, but I think we’re in a very sensitive time.  My recommendation would be to go very easy on this, and after all, what you say is what people are going to hear, and that’s what they’re going to interpret is our policy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Part of my reason for this was that I anticipate getting asked the question, in which case I would have to respond.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. This is indicated by Mr. Fisher's recommendation to "go very easy" on the subject, while President Kocherlakota anticipates being asked a question and needing to respond. This suggests that they have differing views on how much to talk about the subject and how to handle potential questions.


Passage number 56.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to follow up on President Rosengren’s suggestion about replacing “at the same time or relatively soon thereafter” with the word “next.”  I’m sympathetic to the idea that we don’t want to have references to exact times, so I’m happy with that.  But on the other hand, the word “next” does remove the possibility of doing something “at the same time.”  So I would prefer to see something like “at the same time or thereafter.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 57.
 MR. HOENIG.  I don’t mean to be throwing this out loosely, but I know I heard a lot of desires to see all timing taken out.  However, if you want to create chatter, let everyone start guessing as to whether it’s three or four or two years.  This gives them rough guidelines that I think can be helpful.  As you work on the amendments, keep that in mind as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Hoenig is expressing his understanding of the desires to remove timing from a certain context and suggesting that leaving some rough guidelines can be helpful. President Lacker thanks him for his input.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 58.
  MR. LACKER.  For what it’s worth, without the timing references, specifically “four to five years“ regarding normalization of our balance sheet, I find myself in President Bullard’s camp of being unable to really support this.   We’ve talked for a while about wanting to normalize our balance sheet, and we’ve talked for a long time about wanting to do that relatively expeditiously, and to me, if all that’s left is the sequence, and I don’t support the sequence, I couldn’t support this. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Did I understand you correctly to say that your key issue was the “four to five years”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker states that he is unable to support the idea of normalizing the balance sheet in four to five years, whereas President Bullard seems to be in favor of this timeline.


Passage number 59.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  It’s a key element. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But with that number you’d support it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker agrees with the statement and supports it.


Passage number 60.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes, some definite number. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Again, we’ll try to get a document that people can support.  If not, we’ll simply report the preponderance of opinion on the issues. Okay.  Thank you very much.  I understand lunch is ready.  Let’s take about half an hour to get lunch and sit down, and then we’ll go into Mr. Sack’s presentation. [Lunch recess] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Why don’t we reconvene.  We’re at item 3 on the agenda, “Financial Developments and Open Market Operations,” and let me turn it over to Brian Sack.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the agenda for a meeting and the plans for lunch break.


Passage number 61.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.  There has obviously been a lot of press about Maiden Lane II sales, and Maiden Lane II sales have been cited as a factor—in fact, some people would even claim primary factor—for the weakness in the nonprime RMBS market, but also more broadly than that, CMBS and a whole variety of different asset classes.  As Brian said, we feel very strongly that this is not really the main factor.  The deterioration in housing and the decline in risk appetite seem to be much more important.  It’s hard to believe that $15 billion market value of assets could generate such large effects, especially when it’s important to recognize that the nonprime RMBS market is actually shrinking over time because there’s no new issuance.  So this is a market that’s actually amortizing over time. I want to give you briefly an update of where we stand.  The next big event is going to be on July 15, when we actually publish the results.  I’m going to give you a heads up about what those results are going to look like.  The good news is that the sales that we’ve actually done have gone very, very well.  We’ve put out nine bid lists.  We sold $10 billion, face amount, which is roughly one-third of the portfolio.  So we’ve achieved $4.7 billion of actual proceeds, and we’re running about $400 million ahead of our December 31 marks which, if you remember, were the basis of AIG’s bid for this portfolio.  Part of that reflects the fact that we have positive carry on these assets, but a lot of this reflects the fact that the bids we got for these assets were quite a bit higher than our marks.  There’s been no issue in terms of, Do you get bids for the assets, to sell the assets.  We’ve had multiple bids on all of the assets.  We haven’t faced the issue of being left with “cats and dogs” at the end; we can sell everything.  There are bids for everything.  We may not necessarily like the bids that we get, but there’s actually plenty of demand to take these off our hands. The bad news is that there has been, as Brian showed in one of his charts, a significant decline in prices in this market.  As a result, the outlook going forward for prices for the remaining two-thirds of the portfolio is quite a bit less favorable than the prices we’ve actually achieved to date.  If we sold everything that we hold today at the current market prices—instantaneous, no positive carry—we would achieve overall a $1.1 billion profit, which would be smaller than the $1½ billion profit that we would have gotten if we’d accepted AIG’s offer.  What’s our response to this.  Well, our response is we’re going to slow down the pace of sales to reflect the deterioration in market conditions and to reflect the fact that we’re in the summer months where there’s going to be fewer people around.  So you’ll see fewer bid lists from us, and we may also reduce the proportion of securities that we actually sell.  Up to now we’ve sold 75 percent of the securities that we put on offer, and we may be a little less aggressive than that.  Now, in all this, time is our friend.  We have a positive carry as these securities amortize.  If we slow down and prices stay steady, we’ll actually do better than the $1.1 billion.  So that’s where we stand, and I’d be happy to take any questions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Are there any questions.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing updates and information about the sales of Maiden Lane II assets.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 62.
 MR. LACKER.  Help me understand this strategy.  Do you place greater value on the upside option, given the occularity about the AIG offer, than the market, or do you think that these are underpriced.  The market prices are going to take into account the carry, right.  So this change in strategy should be present-discounted-value neutral.  So I’m wondering whether you have a different idea than the market about the value or you see a higher value than the market on the upside option, given the appearance and the optics relative to the AIG offer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement or contention in the passage. The speaker is questioning the strategy and suggesting that there may be a difference in valuation between the market and the person they are speaking to. This is evident from phrases like "Do you place greater value on the upside option... than the market?" and "So I’m wondering whether you have a different idea than the market about the value or you see a higher value than the market on the upside option."


Passage number 63.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Because these are risky assets, there’s a big risk premium on these assets.  So the yield on these assets is actually high relative to a risk-free asset.  With respect to AIG, the issue about not accepting AIG’s offer was not really about the price that they were paying for the assets, it was the fact that we thought that there were significant financial stability issues associated with selling what have obviously been very risky assets all to one entity.  We also were concerned about the lack of a level playing field in the sense that these assets should be available broadly to whoever wants to buy them.  We committed, when we started this process, to basing the rate of sales on market conditions, and market conditions have deteriorated.  We’re also in the summer months where demand is less because there are fewer people at their securities firms.  For those reasons, we’re going to slow down a bit. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  We can turn to questions for Brian, and if anyone wants to ask Bill another question, that’s fine, too. Brian, let me ask you about the release date on the swap agreements.  Because of the timing of my monetary policy testimony, I believe that there will at least be a serious consideration of releasing the minutes on July 12, and of course, that will contain the information.  That creates a little bit of a concern for me.  Is there any way to move this up.  For example, if we say that Bank of Japan will be considering, when would the next latest possible date be.  What’s your thought on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage mainly consists of statements and concerns shared by the speaker. There are no opposing viewpoints or arguments presented.


Passage number 64.
 MR. SACK.  I didn’t learn that the minutes were going to be accelerated until yesterday.  It’s certainly an option to have the statement come out earlier from everyone except the Bank of Japan, with an indication that the Bank of Japan would be expected to take a similar action.  If so, we can bring it forward at least several days.  I think the Bank of Japan didn’t want it too far in advance of their action, but there’s some flexibility there.  The other thing is, given the timing of their meeting, we would like to release the statement in the morning.  So perhaps we could consider whether a release in the morning ahead of the minutes would still be acceptable.  We’re thinking of a 9:00 a.m. release. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Now we’re open for general questions.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing options and considerations for releasing a statement.


Passage number 65.
 MR. FISHER.  On the swap lines, there are no current outstanding balances—is that correct.  And they’ve been minimally utilized, including from Japan.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple statement of fact.


Passage number 66.
 MR. SACK.  That’s correct.  There was a small amount of activity from Japan over the life of the lines and a larger amount from the ECB, although still relatively small, at the beginning of the lines.  They haven’t been actively used in a while, but yet we continue to think that their presence is a useful backstop.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states information about the activity on the lines and expresses a belief about their usefulness.


Passage number 67.
 MR. FISHER.  And they’re open ended in terms of the amount.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply providing information about the nature of the "they" being referred to. It does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 68.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, they’re open ended, with the exception of the line with the Bank of Canada; the other four are open ended.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states that the four options mentioned are open-ended, with one exception.


Passage number 69.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I think that’s also a selling point to our critics.  We put them there.  They haven’t been heavily utilized.  The pricing is important.  I don’t know if the timing is right—you asked for approval.  I’d like to move that we approve this, unless we have other discussions on the swap lines. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We’ll vote as soon as the Q&A session is over.  Thank you.  The pricing terms, plus 100 basis points, are intended to keep utilization minimal unless conditions actually are worsening.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 70.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Brian, regarding the debt ceiling, you noted two things.  One, this could be very disruptive if taken to the limit, and, second, that the market has not yet priced that into bond prices.  When do you think the market will begin to react to a lack of resolution if we go right up to August 2.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply summarizing the points made by Brian about the potential disruption of reaching the debt ceiling and the current lack of reaction in the bond market.


Passage number 71.
 MR. SACK.  That’s very hard to say.  We’re in a very awkward equilibrium where the markets assume there will be an outcome because not having an outcome would be so catastrophic.  However, that assumption means you don’t see any pressure in markets, and it relieves the pressure on the political process.  And the problem is that the markets may be expecting this to go up to the last minute, so they may be expecting an eleventh hour solution.  I think that means that there’s a chance we won’t see any significant source of pressure in the markets until we’re right against the deadline or so, perhaps late July or very early August. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the current state of the markets and the potential pressure on the political process.


Passage number 72.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I have a question about the reinvestment policy going forward.  The table on exhibit 4, chart 20, shows that the reinvestment strategy has the same maturity structures that we have been doing.  What are the tradeoffs to thinking about changing the maturity distribution, skewing it perhaps more toward short-term securities or Treasury bills.  What’s the thinking about the mixture, the maturity structure of the reinvestments going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not mention any contention or disagreement. It is simply a question about the reinvestment policy going forward and the potential tradeoffs of changing the maturity distribution.


Passage number 73.
 MR. SACK.  As I noted, this strategy of course will keep the duration of our purchases in that same range of five to six years, which is slightly higher than the duration of the portfolio in total.  Our thinking was that that was a good maturity range to be in.  It isn’t too different from the maturity of the portfolio.  It maintained the current policy and seemed consistent with the idea of policy going on hold, which I think is how many FOMC members have described what the stance of policy will be after June in terms of keeping the balance sheet unchanged.  And we thought that, from a communication perspective, this was also the simplest outcome, to simply maintain that current distribution.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their thinking and rationale behind their chosen strategy, without contradicting or conflicting with any opposing viewpoints.


Passage number 74.
 MR. PLOSSER.  What would be the consequences, do you think, in the markets of skewing that slightly toward shortening the maturity structure a little bit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It is simply asking for the potential consequences of a particular action.


Passage number 75.
 MR. SACK.  In a portfolio-balance type of theory, a shortening of the structure would put a bit of upward pressure on yields.  We tend to think of the portfolio as having the effect through the duration risk it removes, so if we shift toward shorter maturities, we’re removing less duration risk, but it would be quite modest. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Sack explaining the potential effects of a shortening of the structure in a portfolio-balance type of theory. President Kocherlakota's response is not provided in the passage.


Passage number 76.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Brian, I had two questions related to the debt ceiling.  The first question is about credit default swaps on U.S. debt:  Are their prices showing any movement at all related to concerns about the debt ceiling.  And the second question is, when you talk to market participants, do you perceive any contemplation of some kind of extraordinary unspecified intervention by the Federal Reserve to maintain market function in the wake of hitting the debt ceiling or breaching the debt ceiling.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a straightforward question and request for information.


Passage number 77.
 MR. SACK.  On the first question, five-year CDS, which is the most liquid part of the structure, has moved up modestly but not dramatically.  The one-year measure, in fact, has moved up noticeably, but we don’t put a lot of weight on that evidence because the CDS market for U.S. sovereign debt is very small.  I think the net outstanding amount from DTC data is something between $4 billion and $5 billion.  So we’re pretty dismissive of that signal.  We would prefer to look at the yields on actual Treasury securities to make inference about the likelihood being priced into the market. In terms of the Federal Reserve’s role and whether market participants are talking about that, I have not heard a lot of discussion about that.  As I noted in my briefing, we’ve begun contingency planning.  We want to make sure that our operations can be conducted in these circumstances.  We’ve also begun a process of thinking about how those operations might affect the market and how that may interact with the debt ceiling; there are a number of issues there.  For example, if we’re buying Treasury securities and there were securities with missed payments, would market participants want to show us large amounts of those securities to get rid of them and not have to deal with the market consequences.  If those particular securities have cheapened a lot, do our existing procedures bias us toward buying them.  Would they have the same incentives to give us those securities in securities lending.  And, last, might there be a substantial need for funding if the repo markets dried up that we would have to meet with repurchase agreements.  We have a list of those kind of issues that we’re working through, but we’re not yet to the point where the market is really focused on that next step. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mainly presenting information and discussing the Federal Reserve's contingency planning.


Passage number 78.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Just to follow up on this, are you approaching that task with a principle in mind that you don’t want our actions at the Desk to blunt the market effects of a nonpayment event.  To some extent, anything we do there is essentially ameliorating the consequence of a fiscal action and implicates us in fiscal action.  I wonder how you’re thinking about that.  I understand that, at the same time there’s a concern about market functioning as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply a question raised by Mr. Lacker about how the chairman is approaching the task at hand.


Passage number 79.
 MR. SACK.  There are some issues that I think are covered under the current directive.  If upward pressure on repo rates were to drag the federal funds rate up as well, the current Desk directive would mandate that the Desk do RPs and inject reserves, so those I’m taking as given.  More broadly, in terms of how the operations may be affected or how the operations could be changed in response to the consequences—that’s an area where I would seek consultation from the Committee.  I’m assuming the Committee does not want to structure operations for the sole purpose of helping the markets through the debt ceiling problems.  If you wanted to go to the extreme, you could imagine operations like CUSIP swaps, where we would buy defaulted securities and sell nondefaulted securities out of our portfolio.  I’m sure there are a number of very creative things we could do to help the markets through a debt ceiling problem.  I’m assuming there’s not an appetite to go to those extremes.  However, there’s a lot of area in between the extremes in terms of how the operations we conduct regularly will be affected, and those are the things we’ll be sorting through.  If we’re doing anything outside of our regular operations or outside of what we see necessary to meet the directive, we would consult with policymakers.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 80.
 MR. LACKER.  Do you view a CUSIP swap as beyond the pale.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a simple question posed by Mr. Lacker without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting opinions being expressed.


Passage number 81.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 82.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  But there would be a securities lending operation, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 83.
 MR. SACK.  Yes.  The authorization to the Desk for securities lending is in part based on market functioning, so that’s a standing facility that I assume we would maintain.  The authorization for buying and selling Treasury securities, as would be needed for a CUSIP swap, is tied directly to the directive, and the directive does not have a broad market-functioning aspect to it.  I think to design operations for market-functioning purposes that involve buying and selling securities would require some kind of consultation with the Committee. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Sack is simply explaining the different authorizations and requirements related to securities lending and buying/selling Treasury securities.


Passage number 84.
 MR. FISHER.  I just want to make sure I understand this.  We do have contingency plans in place.  So you have some decision-tree analysis here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not present any explicit contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher is simply seeking clarification and confirming the existence of contingency plans.


Passage number 85.
 MR. SACK.  Yes.  We started with a half-page list of potential issues related to the debt ceiling, which has now grown to four pages.  There are a large number of issues we need to think through in terms of how our systems work, how our pricing feeds work, whether the way we do relative value analysis for valuing collateral that comes in or for buying assets outright is affected by all of this—there’s a whole range of issues.  We are working through them.  I wouldn’t say we’ve worked through them completely at this point, but we are now making good progress.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker acknowledges that there are a large number of issues related to the debt ceiling that need to be considered and worked through, but there is no indication of contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 86.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, I would expect you to be doing so, and if it does require coming to the Committee, you’ve said you would but, obviously, first you have to develop all the possibilities.  So thank you for answering that question. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I guess my thought, Brian, is that you should think about options for preserving market function, and so on, and if we get close to this point, we can obviously have a teleconference and have a decision about which, if any, we want to adopt.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a statement of agreement and a suggestion for consideration.


Passage number 87.
 MR. LACKER.  Obviously, you understand the importance of the appearance of maintaining distance from funding a fiscal crisis with our balance sheet.  But back to President Lockhart’s question, it strikes me that August 1 is probably not the time for us to figure it out.  Because market participants have a long history of watching our actions in securities lending and market operations, communicating to them before then our stance regarding this might be useful in order to avoid putting us in a box where we’re forced to act in a way we don’t want to in order to forestall a discontinuity.  I’d urge you to put effort into this as up front as possible and, if consultations with the Committee are needed that those be done earlier rather than later. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’m quite confident that if August 2 passes, that there won’t be an immediate default.  I think it would take some time, but there are dates like August 15 where there’s a big coupon payment required that would be much riskier.  But I think end of July would no doubt be sufficient time from the Committee’s point of view.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their understanding and offering their opinion on the timing and potential risks of not addressing the issue mentioned. They are discussing the need for communication and early consultation, but there is no explicit disagreement or contention with any other party or idea.


Passage number 88.
 MR. LACKER.  Does the federal government have enough payment-delay options outside of the Treasury redemptions, these weekly notes, to be able to get through to the 15th. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think it does—Bill, you can add to this.  It has a number of unattractive but nonetheless available options, like selling MBS and so on, to raise revenue, and, of course, there’s tax revenue.  If they prioritize and decide not to pay Social Security, for example, which of course is a political disaster, they could still make the principal and interest payments, certainly, for a couple of weeks.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that the federal government has options to delay payments and raise revenue, such as selling MBS and using tax revenue. The mention of not paying Social Security as a political disaster suggests a potential consequence, but it does not indicate disagreement or contention between speakers.


Passage number 89.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  At the risk of being repetitive as to what President Lacker already said so eloquently, Mr. Chairman, I think it will be important, in advance of any big event in the markets, for us to be clear to the markets about what our stance is.  I think we might be clear within this Committee, but it’s going to be important as well for that clarity to go through to the markets.  Maybe that can be done by late July or early August or something like that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  Then we need to vote to ratify domestic open market operations since the April meeting.  Can I have a motion. MS. YELLEN.  So moved. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Without objection.  Okay.  President Fisher has moved to approve the extension of the liquidity swap lines.  I would just add that we’ve had a number of calls lately concerning the Greek situation.  There’s a lot that could be happening in the next few weeks there.  Japan seems to be improving, but still there’s some financial risk related to the disaster.  So I think our stance, which is a penalty rate, no current outstanding balances, but providing what could be a very important backstop, is desirable.  Are there any other comments or questions about the swap lines.  Concerns.  [No response] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  In that case, all in favor, say aye.  [Chorus of ayes]  Any opposed.  [No response]  Okay.  Thank you.  Let’s go on now to item 4, the economic and financial situation, and let me turn to Larry Slifman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are expressing their agreement and support for each other's statements and motions.


Passage number 90.
 MR. REEVE.  Our forecast for solid growth abroad that Beth Anne just described underpins our favorable outlook for U.S. trade.  As shown in the first panel of exhibit 7, we expect real exports to expand at a robust 9 to 10 percent pace over the projection period, with a good part of this growth reflecting the fall in the dollar since its crisis-related run-up a few years ago. The lower dollar, along with subdued U.S. demand, also provides some restraint to real import growth (the blue line in the first panel).  In addition, imports are held down in the current quarter by disruptions from Japan’s earthquake but then bounce back.  Smoothing through these disruptions, imports expand at a 4½ percent pace this year and next.  With exports outpacing imports, the external sector’s contribution to U.S. GDP growth, shown in the next panel, averages ½ percentage point though next year. As illustrated by the blue bars in the lower-left panel, the recent depreciation of the dollar has also pushed up U.S. import prices.  We see nonfuel import price inflation falling from 7½ percent in the first half of this year to just 1½ percent next year, reflecting slower dollar depreciation and, as shown in the final panel, a projected leveling out of commodity prices. Since April, commodity prices have declined amid heightened concerns about global growth; oil prices were down about $10 per barrel when we finalized the Tealbook and have fallen further since.  Following the repeated upward revisions to our commodity price projections over the past two years, this recent downshift may make our futures-based projection for flat prices seem less far-fetched.  Nonetheless, we recognize (and share) the widespread dismay with how poorly futures predict commodity prices.  Accordingly, the Division of International Finance has been engaged in research to improve our commodity price forecasts.  In the remainder of my remarks, I’ll summarize our key results. The first panel of your next chart shows how futures markets missed the run-up in oil prices from 2003 through 2008 by calling for prices to remain flat.  But, as noted to the right, flat futures curves should not come as a surprise.  Through adjustments in inventories, market participants can arbitrage between spot and futures prices, thus embedding expectations for future supply and demand conditions in current spot prices.  For example, if futures prices are far above spot prices, it will be profitable to buy the commodity in the spot market, store it, and sell it forward in the futures market, thus tending to push spot prices up and futures prices down. There are limits to how far this arbitrage will flatten the futures curve, as the costs and benefits of holding inventories create a wedge between spot and futures prices.  When these costs or benefits are not large, futures curves will tend to be flat.  In other times, such as when inventory levels are very low or very high, futures curves can have a significant tilt.  And in these instances, we find that futures prices do better at forecasting than a random walk. With commodity prices incorporating forward-looking information, the reason futures missed the run-up in prices may be that markets were simply surprised by the evolution of supply and demand.  As shown in the middle-left panel, consensus forecasts of industrial production in emerging Asia—a key source of commodity demand over this period—were indeed revised up in step with the upward shifts in commodity prices.  And forecasts of world oil supply (not shown) tell a similar story of repeated surprises, but to the downside.  More generally, our empirical research confirms that revisions to forecasts of economic growth explain commodity prices better than growth itself. Based on these findings, we’ve devised a new approach for forecasting commodity prices that begins with futures prices but adjusts them to account for the extent to which we think markets will be surprised by the evolution of global growth.  We predict these surprises as the difference between the staff’s forecast for global activity and private-sector forecasts, then map these surprises into prices based on the historical relationship between such surprises and commodity prices.  As we have also found the dollar to be informative for commodity prices, we include dollar surprises in our adjustments as well. The lower panels show a few examples of the predictions this approach would have generated in the past (the dashed lines), along with the forecasts from futures prices for oil and our nonfuel commodity price index.  The new approach delivers a forecast that can vary noticeably from the futures path, sometimes for the better and sometimes for the worse.  Unfortunately, as noted in your next exhibit, this approach does not deliver an improvement in forecasting accuracy.  As shown on the right, its root mean squared error over the past decade is actually a touch worse than a random walk or futures—though the difference is small and not statistically significant. However, our proposed approach has two important advantages.  First, it yields a forecast that is more internally consistent with the staff’s Tealbook forecast.  Second, it helps us to characterize the risks to commodity prices.  For example, in the middle-left panel, the flat forecast of oil prices generated by our new approach (the solid black line) is almost the same as the futures curve used in the June Tealbook forecast (the dashed line).  But in an alternative scenario, where world growth next year exceeds market expectations by ½ percentage point, we would expect oil prices to move up about 15 percent. We plan to implement this new framework on a trial basis starting in the August Tealbook, although we will not blindly adhere to it if problems emerge.  In addition, we intend to continue our quest to better understand—and hopefully predict—commodity prices.  Dan will now continue our presentation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing information and describing research findings.


Passage number 91.
 MR. REEVE.  That is right.  We actually did a little bit better on the dollar than our perception of outside forecasters, which we take to be, basically, a random walk, because through most of that period we were projecting some modest depreciation; but we lost a little bit on global growth. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But in the memo that you circulated, if I remember correctly, you found that futures curves actually are more informative when they are sloped either up or down.  So an alternative forecasting method would be one that puts a heavier weight on those situations and, otherwise, when it’s flat, uses some other types of information.  Why didn’t you make that forecasting comparison.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 92.
 MR. REEVE.  Well, actually that observation is a big reason that we retained futures as our starting point in the first place.  Alternative approaches that we tried along the way were just relating commodity prices more directly to our expectations of global economic growth and the dollar and any other factors that we could find, disregarding the information in futures.  But we found that you really are throwing away that useful information when you have a material slope to the futures curve.  So this was a way that we wanted to preserve that useful information but then basically just tweak it based a bit on how we view the world evolving a bit differently than maybe outside forecasters do. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Mine is just a suggestion to take a weighted average of the two types of forecasts and put a heavier weight on futures when they’re far from being flat.  Okay.  Questions for anybody.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their reasoning for retaining futures as a starting point and their preference for incorporating information from futures into their forecasts. They also suggest a weighted average approach that puts more weight on futures when they deviate from being flat.


Passage number 93.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I have one question on the downgrade risk of Bank of America and Citigroup.  Let’s use Bank of America as an example because it has Merrill Lynch underneath it.  If Bank of America were to lose its A1/P1 status, would that affect its ability to serve as an investment bank.  This may be too detailed—and if so I can take it offline—but are we concerned about the investment bank model under bank holding companies if A1/P1 status is lost.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and seeking clarification.


Passage number 94.
 MR. COVITZ.  I think probably yes, but I’m not sure exactly which functions they wouldn’t be able to conduct and which functions they would be able to conduct.  It’s pretty clear that if they no longer have an A1/P1 rating, their ability to support entities—provide liquidity support or credit support—would go away right away.  I think in the past when something like this has happened, and providers of support have been downgraded to tier 2 status, the rating agencies give the structures a little time to actually make that adjustment.  They don’t instantly say, “Okay.  All of these structures are downgraded right away.”  But ultimately they would be. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing information and expressing uncertainty about the specific functions that would be affected by a downgrade, but there is no argument or differing opinion.


Passage number 95.
  MR. TARULLO.  Maybe Bill and I could supplement this a little bit, because we have been talking about this a lot in the context of B of A and Citi, but also, to some degree, Morgan Stanley.  And I think, Eric, our best understanding, which Bill may want to supplement, is that in the past, it’s been very hard to conceive of anybody surviving as an investment bank with an A2/P2 rating.  Bank of America may present a somewhat novel experiment, insofar as they’re such a huge retail bank, with a very big liquidity base and lots of deposits and all the rest, which is associated with the investment bank, but it’s by no means clear that that would be the case.  So I think our expectation has been that, at best, it would be a significant challenge for B of A, and probably more than a significant challenge for Citi and Morgan, which is what’s led to all of the planning by Richmond and New York over the course of eight or nine months since this first became a possibility.  Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing their understanding and expectations regarding the survivability of investment banks with a certain rating.


Passage number 96.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  I think we are worried about it, and I think one of the issues is, what happens to people’s willingness to take that entity as a counterparty.  So it’s not just their own funding, it’s also their transactions in, say, the OTC derivatives markets.  One thing that is very hard to assess here is, what is the damage to the franchise.  And how does that manifest itself over time.  You could have a situation where nothing happened very dramatically on day 1 or day 90, but the franchise of the entity would erode over time.  The bank’s funding costs are also likely to be higher, and that’s also a competitive disadvantage in terms of generating reasonable returns on equity.  All of these things might have a medium- to long-term effect.  I think it’s a little harder to judge from historical experience, though, because usually what happens is, when you get downgraded to A2/P2, you’re on your way to something even worse.  And so you never really know what would happen if they were downgraded to A2/P2, but then their earnings performance subsequently improved.  We just don’t have a lot of examples of that type of survival.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit disagreement or contention. It primarily discusses concerns and uncertainties related to the potential effects of a downgrade on a bank's franchise, funding costs, and overall performance. There is no indication of conflicting opinions or arguments between multiple parties.


Passage number 97.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, may I ask these two gentlemen—in the early ’90s, we had a problem with several banks being downgraded in terms of their commercial paper, including Citi.  They weren’t as reliant on short-term funding back then as they are now, and, of course, the complexity of their business was less so.  But are there any lessons we learned from that experience.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking if there are any lessons that were learned from a past experience.


Passage number 98.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  There’s a difference between a bank and a bank holding company, and how do you fund the nonbank subsidiaries.  That’s really the key issue, I think.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. While the passage presents two related ideas, there is no indication of disagreement or contention. The author simply states that there is a difference between a bank and a bank holding company, and raises a question about funding nonbank subsidiaries.


Passage number 99.
 MR. TARULLO.  That’s right.  And the second thing is, I think there was a lesson, Richard, insofar as with all three of these institutions, there’s been a heavy emphasis on liquidity preparation over the course of the past eight or nine months.  The liquidity preparation doesn’t do anything to address the business-model question that Bill was just describing, but it does mitigate the potential for a sudden discontinuous event.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with the previous statement and adds additional information.


Passage number 100.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Questions.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply thanking someone and asking for questions.


Passage number 101.
 MR. HOENIG.  I have a question on exhibit 2.  It’s around the discussion of why consumer spending is so sluggish, and you compared it with the three past recessions.  I’d be curious, did you track, for example, the ratio of personal debt to disposable income and compare it with those three periods.  Because although you say one-fourth of the mortgages are underwater, I think it could be more than that; it could be just the leverage that the consumer is working off that is slowing consumption.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Hoenig is simply asking for clarification and suggesting an additional factor to consider when analyzing consumer spending. He is not challenging or disagreeing with any previous statements or opinions.


Passage number 102.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  I did not actually do that cyclical comparison.  I am going to put that on my to-do list, however, because I think it’s a good point.  But without having the actual facts in front of me, I would suspect that your hypothesis has a lot of plausibility to it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Slifman acknowledges the validity of the point made by the other person and expresses his intention to look into it further.


Passage number 103.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Turning to exhibit 6 on the forecasts of the external sector, my question relates to China and perhaps to Japan.  What, notionally, is the confidence interval you have around those forecasts for the second half and next year—the sharp bounceback in Japan, but more importantly, perhaps, the relatively flat and still very strong growth in China.  Put differently, is there any risk of a China slowdown that really does change the global outlook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a question about the confidence interval and potential risks related to the forecasts of economic growth in China and Japan.


Passage number 104.
 MR. REEVE.  There are always risks.  We’re always mindful of them and looking as carefully as we can to find them.  In the case of China, obviously, policymakers there have been trying to engineer a slowdown from unsustainably rapid growth.  So far they seem to have done a pretty good job at doing that.  One of the main indicators for that is that outstanding bank loan chart that is shown in the exhibit.  There were some fears earlier this year when some soft readings were coming in; they were a little bit hard to interpret because of the lunar new year and the strange dip in retail sales and so forth.  But I think a lot of people took confidence from the May readings, which showed investment picking back up and retail sales still expanding at a healthy pace.  House prices, which are a big concern in a lot of cities in China, have essentially stabilized and are not either increasing at really rapid rates or in a freefall.  So far, it seems like the overall pattern of macroeconomic policies that the authorities have undertaken is achieving the type of reduction in the very rapid rates of economic growth that they were looking for.  And, of course, as you noted, that’s our baseline forecast.  There certainly are risks around it.  Some people are worried about power outages later this year and other disruptions that could emerge.  But so far, we actually feel quite positive on the Chinese outlook. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Reeve, is providing an analysis of the Chinese economy and expressing a positive outlook. He mentions some potential risks, but overall agrees with the baseline forecast.


Passage number 105.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Back to exhibit 2 and these charts comparing the recessions of ’73, ’81, and ’07.  I’ve looked at charts like this myself, and my comment is that the ’70s was a really volatile period in the U.S. economy, and the economy behaved very differently after 1984.  It’s true that these are the previous two recessions that are the most severe, but on the other hand, the economy doesn’t seem to have behaved this way for 25 years, so I’m not quite sure that’s the right comparison.  What I try to look at instead is the period coming out of the 2001 recession and the ’90–’91 recession, even though those recessions weren’t as deep.  And there the current recovery looks roughly similar.  Although there are some differences, it does look more similar to those cases.  In this recession there was a huge drop-off, which I would interpret as a bursting of a housing bubble, and then the recovery has been very similar to the last two.  So that gives you a very different perspective on how to think about this recovery as opposed to looking back to the 1970s.  But again, we haven’t really experienced that for 25 years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is expressing his own perspective and offering an alternative viewpoint, but there is no clear contention or disagreement with anyone else.


Passage number 106.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  Obviously, the comparisons you’re talking about are ones where you, in effect, index them from the trough rather than from the peak, and the charts do look different if you were to do that.  It’s all in the eye of the beholder, but it would seem to me that the more relevant comparisons were to start at the peak, so that one could take in the extraordinary depth of this recession.  And it was for that reason, then, that it seemed the right thing to do, to compare it with other deep recessions.  But I grant you that, in some sense, it depends on the question that you are trying to address.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is acknowledging that comparing recessions from different perspectives can lead to different conclusions, but they also mention that starting at the peak is more relevant in understanding the depth of the recession. There is no argument or disagreement between the speaker and any other party.


Passage number 107.
 MR. BULLARD.  I’m just saying, from a recovery perspective, I’d welcome a theory of why those recoveries look different in the earlier era than they look in the modern era.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard is simply expressing his point of view and stating that he would like to understand the reasons behind the differences in recoveries between different eras.


Passage number 108.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  Another thing we did was to look, for example, at the residuals in spending equations at different points in the recovery.  Typically at this point in a recovery, you would expect, for example, that, because of pent-up demand and deferred purchases that occurred during the recession, consumer spending would be higher than one might expect based simply on income and wealth and the usual other kinds of right-hand-side determinants, whereas now it’s just the opposite.  Consumption is far below what might be expected.  The facts that you present are the facts, but in terms of trying to get some purchase on why this recovery just doesn’t seem to be getting any traction, I think that focusing on these problems in the household sector provides some insight.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating facts and presenting their own analysis and interpretation of the situation.


Passage number 109.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  Let me put it a little more strongly.  You’re pining for something that hasn’t happened in a quarter-century. MS. WILSON.  Can I step in.  When we’ve looked at the similar charts to what you’ve looked at for the United States, and we’ve included a broader range of recessions, we found that the results that were shown here hold in terms of the components.  So aggregate GDP, you’re right, shows up more in the middle—this current recovery indexed to the trough looks fairly in the middle of the range.  But Larry’s point about the weakness of consumption—as well as the unemployment rate—still holds true.  The components are where you see differences.  You can tell by looking at Larry’s charts that if you index the trough, investment is actually going to look pretty strong now, but what you’re going to see is incredible weakness in consumption as well as on the labor market side, and of course in housing.  And those results still hold regardless of where you index.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Bullard and Ms. Wilson are discussing and agreeing on the data and findings.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 110.
 MR. BULLARD.  For those of you that are interested, I’ll put out our advertisement.  All of these kinds of charts are plotted on the St. Louis website, not just for the United States, but also for other countries, monthly and quarterly. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It’s a propos that President Bullard just commented that this recession followed the popping of a housing bubble.  Larry Slifman made a similar comment.  I think there is an important and interesting distinction between whether it was the housing bubble or the housing bubble plus the financial crisis.  We have some evidence on financial crises, but we have also seen housing bubbles around the world that weren’t accompanied by a financial crisis.  I think Australia is one example.  You may not know off the top of your head, but do we have any sense of whether recessions are very deep and recovery is very slow when there are housing bubbles popping but not a serious financial crisis. MS. WILSON.  What we’ve done is that we’ve taken a series of about 150 episodes and broken them down the way the IMF has broken them down, by various types, so we know something about financial crises and banking crises.  However, there are not a huge number of observations of housing crises, and while it’s very difficult to say, I’m sure that for the housing component itself, you could find a difference.  Comparing banking and financial crises and normal recessions, when you index to the trough, it’s extremely difficult to identify a difference in the pace of recovery.  You do see differences, to some extent, in how deep or how long the recession is.  But on the way up, you don’t see huge differences, in the aggregate, although you see various differences in the components.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. 

Explanation: Mr. Bullard suggests that there may be a distinction between the impact of a housing bubble and a financial crisis on recessions, while Ms. Wilson argues that it is difficult to identify a difference in the pace of recovery between different types of crises.


Passage number 111.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  Could I add one more comment.  This is related to the point that President Hoenig was raising as well, and that is, we have seen in the United States other times when, regionally, there have been sizable declines in house prices.  It happened in California in the early 1990s, for example.  The big difference was that, even though we had sizable declines in house prices, we did not see a spike in households having negative equity because in those days, you had to put 20 percent down.  But when you put zero down and house prices fall, that’s a big change.  I think that’s an important difference between the situation that we faced in the latter half of the past decade and previous periods of past declines. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is providing additional information and agreeing with President Hoenig's point about the difference in house prices declines and negative equity in different time periods. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 112.
 MR. FISHER.  I have a question for Beth Anne, Mr. Chairman, if I may.  When we went through your exhibit about the bond spreads and so on, I didn’t hear anything about France.  And the reason I mention that is because, in visiting the ECB last March, including with Mr. Trichet, the subject of the French primary deficit came up—that perhaps it is much worse than anybody really knows.  Last Wednesday, which was an interesting day in the marketplace, for the first time I heard, at least from my interlocutors, some concern that this is a shoe that would drop at one point.  So I wondered if you’ve done much work on that, if you have any insight into it, and if not, if you would be kind enough to look at it, because so much of what we have been hearing about Greece is obviously somewhat discounted in the marketplace as it seems to get worse and worse.  But the one thing that would be a total surprise, if it were to occur, would be a surprise coming from the French fiscal situation, particularly given that they’re an anchor country. MS. WILSON.  In terms of the fiscal situation, per se, France was running about a 7 percent headline deficit with about a 5.3 percent primary deficit last year and is expected to reduce that to 5.6 on the headline this year and 4.7 next year.  So they are certainly above Germany, which is the star player here, but it doesn’t look particularly disturbing.  We have seen a run-up, just like many other countries, in their government debt, which went from an average of about 60 percent of GDP in the 2000 to 2006 period, and we anticipate will be about 86 percent of GDP—so, obviously rising, but not at a level that would disturb us.  You may have gotten different information than what we have here, but I think what is somewhat disturbing is that France is exposed to the periphery countries, and it has a number of institutions with some high concentration in Greek debt and other peripheral debt.  You’re starting to see spillovers, not necessarily coming from the French fiscal situation itself, but from its exposure to the peripheries.  But I wouldn’t discount the political difficulties they are all facing in terms of bringing deficits down over time.  At this point, we haven’t heard anything, but we will certainly keep our eyes and ears open.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question and answer exchange where Mr. Fisher asks a question about France's fiscal situation and Ms. Wilson provides information and analysis in response. There is no indication of disagreement or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 113.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a polite exchange.


Passage number 114.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  I just want to make an observation on the discussion following President Bullard’s question, relating that discussion to our DSGE presentation.  You cite low expected income growth as a cause for sluggish consumption growth.  In all those models, though, it’s all together.  You don’t have business and consumer confidence floating around as an exogenous variable.  The economy is on some path, and consumers and businesses are expecting some path, and their income expectations are geared off of that.  So from that point of view, looking at the household sector might lead you to look somewhere else, right.  If their income prospects look poor, then you might peel back the onion.  Maybe it’s hiring prospects that are poor, and for some reason they are not getting hired.  I wonder about your reflections on that sort of perspective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for additional perspectives or thoughts on the observation they just made.


Passage number 115.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  When you give a briefing, you have to give things linearly, sequentially.  But obviously these things are all endogenous, and there are interactions among all of them.  I think I tried to stress in my remarks that low expected income interacts with fears about future job loss, concerns about further house price declines, and concerns about geopolitical situations—that all of these things interact with each other to affect short-term spending decisions.  Yes, there is some longer-term spending path that we would expect households to converge to over time, but in the current situation, over the period that’s relevant for us, I think that, for a variety of reasons, households can get thrown off those paths or choose to go off those paths for a while.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is about discussing the various factors that interact with each other and affect short-term spending decisions. There is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 116.
 MR. LACKER.  I was wondering whether some impediment to hiring would necessarily show up as lower consumer spending growth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of curiosity or wondering about a potential causal relationship between hiring and consumer spending growth.


Passage number 117.
 MR. SLIFMAN.  Absolutely.  Part of your consumption plan is going to be related to income, which is going to be, of course, related to labor market conditions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a factual statement explaining the relationship between consumption plans and income. There is no contention or disagreement present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 118.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I was going to add to what President Lacker said, that I think there’s a way to put Larry’s comments on the situation in a DSGE framework.  Think about a DSGE model that layers on more heterogeneity among households and maybe has some income uncertainty for households as well.  If you think about those households as facing higher amounts of income uncertainty, possibly because of the impediments to hiring that President Lacker points to, those people are going to be engaging in more precautionary saving to buttress themselves against those risks.  And then that will show up in the form of lower individual consumption, and then aggregate up to lower aggregate consumption.  We live for the day when we have a DSGE model with full and complete markets and that allows for heterogeneity. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in this passage. While President Lacker suggests that the lower aggregate consumption may be due to decreased confidence and uncertainty, Mr. Kocherlakota suggests that it can be explained by higher levels of income uncertainty and increased precautionary saving. These explanations differ, indicating a disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 119.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  The chart showed exports above imports.  Are the imports weak relative to our actual growth rate.  In other words, do we think there is import substitution going on.  And if so, how much, and how significant is it.  You can have trade improvement for three reasons:  One, our exports are strong; two, our economic growth is weak; and three, our imports are weak.  But import substitution could be another factor.  We hear a lot of anecdotal reports about the United States getting more competitive relative to China and other places.  I was wondering if that is showing up at all.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is questioning whether imports are weak relative to the actual growth rate and whether there is import substitution happening. They mention that trade improvement can happen for multiple reasons, including weak imports. However, they also mention anecdotal reports about the United States becoming more competitive relative to China and other places, which suggests the possibility of import substitution. This raises doubts and a need for further analysis to determine the extent and significance of import substitution.


Passage number 120.
 MR. REEVE.  Well, the way that shows through in the way we do our projections is really through the exchange rate.  And, certainly, the lower value of the dollar in this projection over time is a restraining force on imports and a supportive force for exports.  In that sense, I think some of that actually is occurring.  But in terms of the question, are imports out of line with domestic demand growth or GDP growth.  Not really.  Our model, which includes U.S. activity and the exchange rate, is doing a pretty good job tracking import growth.  If anything, core non-oil imports are maybe just a touch higher than that model would suggest, but not materially so.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is providing their perspective and analysis on the impact of the exchange rate on imports and exports. They mention that imports are not out of line with domestic demand growth or GDP growth and that their model is effectively tracking import growth. The statement is presented as a conclusion based on their analysis rather than a conflicting viewpoint.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 121.
  VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  [No response]  This might be a good time to take a coffee break, and come back at 3:30 p.m. [Coffee break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The next item on our agenda is billed as a chance for Committee discussion of financial stability issues.  This represents a request from the Conference of Presidents that we have an opportunity for some discussion on this area.  I would like to get to the economic go-round in time to, if at all possible, get through it today.  So I am not encouraging a full go-round on financial stability.  That being said, anyone who would like to make comments, observations, ask questions—I see Nellie Liang is at the table—about  issues related to the financial markets and financial stability, of course, is welcome to do so.  We will solicit your views after the meeting as to whether this format is effective or if there are other ways to do it.  But today, again, we will take comments from whoever would like to speak, and I have on my list here, first, President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker mentions that they are not encouraging a full go-round on financial stability, but also states that anyone is welcome to make comments, observations, or ask questions about issues related to financial markets and financial stability. This suggests a potential disagreement or differing opinions on the amount of discussion or focus that should be given to financial stability.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 122.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I would like to thank the staff for a very comprehensive overview of financial stability issues and for getting it to us early enough that we could actually digest it for this meeting.  I plan to expand on a theme that has been emphasized already in the briefing materials and has been an area of focus both at the Board and elsewhere in the System; it concerns the continuing risk posed by the structure of money market mutual funds.  Money market mutual funds played a pivotal role in the disruptions to short-term credit markets during the crisis.  During the crisis, a credit loss resulting from Lehman at a non-bank-sponsored prime money market fund caused a run on money market funds more generally and evaporated their demand for short-term credit instruments.  I fear they could play a similar role were European problems to evolve in unexpected ways. Let me be more specific about my concerns.  If one looks at the top-yielding prime money market funds on June 7, their gross yield ranges from 37 to 44 basis points—a very healthy yield for 2a-7 funds that are restricted on both maturity and duration of assets.  However, of these 12 funds, 9 funds yielded a net return of 3 basis points or less for investors.  As a result, taking less risk would not affect the investors who are only receiving 1 to 3 basis points, but would have an effect on the management fees.  Of the 12 high-yielding prime funds, only 1 was sponsored by a bank, and it is 1 of only 2 funds to experience growth year to date among those 12.  The 4 smallest funds experienced double-digit declines in assets under management. How are these prime money market funds obtaining such high gross yields.  In part, it is by taking credit risk, including to European financial institutions.  Let me give just one example.  The highest-gross-yielding fund has taken a large position in Dexia CDs yielding 66 basis points, while the Ambassador Money Market Fund—the only fund to see significant year-to-date growth among these 12—holds a substantial stake in Dexia commercial paper.  Dexia is partly a Belgian and French government-owned bank and has recent five-year credit default swap quotes of 326 basis points, more than double that of Citigroup and Bank of America, who we discussed earlier for possible downgrades.  Dexia has a €4.3 billion direct exposure to Greece and is on credit watch for being downgraded.  Note that money market fund investments are intended to be invested in highly liquid, low-credit-risk assets.  The high credit default swap rates on European banks that are among the assets held by money market funds indicate that many financial market participants view these as having significant credit risk. While the outcome of events in Europe is unclear, it seems that some money market funds are making investment decisions partly based on expectations of European government support, not unlike the assumption that was a problem for the Reserve Fund when Lehman failed without government support.  However, taking credit risk with a promise of a fixed net asset value means that if they are right, they get high management fees, but if they are wrong, they risk another serious disruption to short-term credit markets in the United States.  This may be a particularly acute risk given the examples I provided of funds with exposure to Dexia.  Both of these funds are managed by small, independent asset managers that may not be capable of providing the noncontractual sponsor support that has served as the primary backstop to this industry. What can we do to reduce this financial stability risk.  A group of academics that met at Squam Lake have suggested capital buffers that convert funds to floating-rate NAVs if the capital buffer is breached.  There are a variety of other suggestions, but two and a half years after the run on money market funds, there still has been no agreement.  Given the risk to financial stability, the Federal Reserve should be actively advocating for more progress on this issue.  The Chairman and several Presidents have raised this as an issue publicly.  I would hope that we will strongly encourage the SEC to take action, and, in the absence of a major change, to try to use the FSOC to encourage more aggressive action.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you, President Rosengren.  I share your concern.  I want you to know that we have in fact worked with the SEC, both in the FSOC as well as through a roundtable they recently held on these issues that Governor Tarullo attended, and I think we have had some effect.  Certainly, Mary Schapiro is very sympathetic to the idea of some of these stronger measures, but we’ll keep monitoring it, and I hope you’ll keep us informed as well.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in this passage. Mr. Rosengren expresses concern about the risk posed by the structure of money market mutual funds, while the Chairman assures him that they have worked with the SEC and have had some effect in addressing these issues.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 123.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  First of all, I want to thank the staff, Dan and Nellie.  I thought that was a terrific presentation that covered a lot of material, and there were some interesting exhibits that presented the information in a way that I hadn’t seen it before.  It was extremely helpful. I want to talk about two issues that I have been talking about for a while, Europe and the federal debt ceiling.  On Europe, let me be very brief.  I suspect that we will avoid a catastrophe in the near term as Greece reluctantly agrees to do more and the private sector participates by rolling over some debt on a “voluntary basis.”  But even if we get this outcome, we should not be very comfortable with where we are.  The intersection of what Greece can or will do, and what the core countries demand—especially from a political perspective—continues to shrink, and we seem very close to a null set.  We might not get to a null set this time, but we are not very far from getting to a null set.  I can easily imagine Greece falling short of its objectives 6 to 12 months down the road, and then we will have another episode, and at that point we actually could reach the end of the road. With respect to the debt ceiling, I would only reinforce Brian’s comments.  We are on a very risky course.  No one knows precisely what will happen if the debt limit is not raised in a timely manner in August, but we do know it will be a mess.  Not only would there be short-term disruptions to financial markets and the macroeconomy, a default, even if temporary, could have a lasting effect on U.S. debt costs and the role of the dollar as a reserve currency.  So I would encourage everyone in this room to raise the alarm in their public comments and in their private discussion of this.  The Chairman spoke about this issue I think quite forcefully recently.  I think the more people that make it clear that this is really serious, the better.  I am particularly worried because the financial markets up to now are so relaxed that the debt limit will be raised in a timely way, and I worry that this is going to give false comfort to those that think a temporary default would not be particularly harmful.  And I think we really need to lean against that notion as hard as we can. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents two issues - Greece's debt crisis and the U.S. federal debt ceiling - and expresses concern and disagreement about the potential outcomes of both. The speaker is skeptical that Greece's current actions will be enough to avoid a catastrophe in the long term, and worries that Greece may fall short of its objectives in the future. Similarly, the speaker expresses concern about the U.S. debt ceiling, stating that a failure to raise it in a timely manner would have negative consequences for financial markets and the economy. The speaker encourages others to raise awareness about the seriousness of the issue and to push back against the belief that a temporary default would not be harmful.


Passage number 124.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I was going to bring this up later, but I think this is an appropriate time to ask a question raised by Vice Chairman Dudley’s remarks.  Even though we will come back together again in early August, is it appropriate to be doing some contingency planning around the early August period, just to know what we would do under various circumstances.  I took Brian’s comments earlier to be that, essentially, he’s clear on operational questions, but if it turned out to be a big deal, it would be back to the Committee to have to decide how to respond. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, either Bill or Brian can add on, but the earlier discussion that Brian led was about contingency planning from the Federal Reserve’s operational point of view, and much of that is mandated by the directive of our normal procedures.  I asked Brian—and I think he is already thinking that way anyway—to consider possible actions that we might take to stabilize markets to the extent we can, with the thinking that if we came close to that time, the Committee would be able to talk about them and see what we were comfortable doing.  So from the Desk’s point of view, I think we have a plan going forward. The other consideration is, we have been strongly discouraged by the Treasury from doing the kind of planning that would involve talking to the private sector.  For example, we have no idea whether the computer systems of BNY, JPMorgan, and the FICC and so on can even manage.  It might be a Y2K type of event in the sense that they don’t contemplate the possibility that they wouldn’t receive principal and interest.  The Treasury’s reasoning is that it doesn’t want to create too much anxiety in markets, and its view is that it intends not to default until it was unavoidable.  You know, we are continuing to talk to the Treasury, and I think at some point we may just have to say, as supervisors and regulators, that we need to do this on our own, and the Treasury doesn’t have to take responsibility for it.  We are, I think, very close to the point where we have to fish or cut bait on those kinds of issues.  So those are the two areas where we are planning.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is primarily a discussion about contingency planning related to financial markets.


Passage number 125.
 MR. LACKER.  Just following up on our earlier discussion—I understand the need for stabilizing the market, but at the same time, would it make sense to contemplate a bright-line policy, like “We will not take a defaulted security”. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, that’s something for the Committee to discuss.  We have competing public policy objectives here.  One of them is to avoid Armageddon in the financial market.  We have done some pretty non-bright-line kinds of things in the past to avoid that Armageddon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 126.
 MR. LACKER.  I would just point out that the ECB seems to have drawn a pretty bright line, but this is a very different situation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not demonstrate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the European Central Bank's stance without any contradicting information or opposing argument.


Passage number 127.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have some sympathy with what President Lacker is saying.  You don’t want to give comfort to make the debt default more likely.  But at the same time, if a debt default were to occur, you don’t want to make it much worse in terms of the consequences.  You are balancing those two basic issues. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I see no harm in having a list of the options, and then we can make some decisions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No - There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses sympathy with President Lacker's viewpoint and acknowledges the need to balance two basic issues. They also mention that having a list of options can help in making decisions, which implies a willingness to consider different perspectives.


Passage number 128.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, I think it would be useful to write out some of the Desk policy issues that could arise in coming weeks and consult with the Committee on approaches they would like to take and where you would like to draw the line.  For example, I would assume we would draw the line past what you just said.  I would think we would probably want to continue to take securities with delayed payments in open market operations.  Excluding them could seem like a very negative market signal about how we were assessing credit quality.  But we could lay all those issues out in a memo and get some guidance from the Committee.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Sack is proposing to write out some policy issues and consult with the Committee for their input and guidance. He also suggests a possible approach to the issue of taking securities with delayed payments in open market operations.


Passage number 129.
 MR. LACKER.  This is obvious, but we are facing a couple of decades of fiscal stringency.  If they actually cross this line, our behavior is going to set a profound precedent here.  So the usual time consistency considerations tip the scale a little bit toward a solid contingency plan. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course.  I would say that I don’t think there is anything we can do within our powers to prevent a default from having extremely negative consequences, if only because of the effect on expectations and the creditworthiness of the U.S. Government.  Whatever we do, I don’t think it’s really a question of us being able to completely eliminate the expectations factor or prevent it from being extremely stressful.  All I can say is, I think we ought to discuss taking into account those expectational effects in what we are prepared to do.  President Hoenig, I have you next.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of opinion about the potential consequences of a default and the need for a contingency plan.


Passage number 130.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I really thought this was a good report, and the chart show was enormously useful as we think about it, because one of my concerns has been that we have this fairly fragile equilibrium at these very low interest rates.  You can see it come out in different forms.  And I thought President Rosengren’s point about money markets was right on.  I think another area is the repos that are also funding longer-term assets under the guise of short-term liabilities.  It is a problem that I think needs to be addressed. In my region you see it in different ways, as I mentioned before.  Agriculture is still moving very, very much toward leverage as gains are recognized and new opportunities present themselves.  We are seeing it in energy, where there are now huge profits on some of these drilling projects, and they are leveraging that up for incredible turnovers.  I think it’s something we need to pay a lot of attention to, and I know we are.  One element of the ag sector I want to mention once again is the effects of GSEs.  There are two things—what they say and then what they do.  And they are saying they are tightening their standards, but when you look at what the Farm Credit System is doing, it’s something else.  Our commercial banks and ag banks are fairly concentrated in agriculture loans, but still less concentrated than the Farm Credit System, and yet the Farm Credit System is maintaining half the reserve levels as the commercial banks are in that area; it is setting the standard, and it drives you toward the lower common denominator.  So you see the leverage going up, and we are seeing big increases on a quarterly basis now in that sector.  We are seeing big increases associated with energy, and then some leverage deals on energy.  As they search for these returns, we are seeing the financing around money markets on a broader scale than other repos.  This is very helpful, and the use of leverage around this is going to only grow.  How we work our way out of this very fragile equilibrium matters, and that’s why this exit strategy, I think, was so important, that we had that discussion today, and I think it gives us, if you will, a guide for beginning to think forward on how we deal with this.  This is a very good report.  These are things that are emerging that we should pay attention to, and I think it will serve us all well.  Thank you.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Would anyone else like to comment.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their agreement and support for the report and discussing various concerns and areas of focus.


Passage number 131.
 MR. FISHER.  On the financial stability, I do want to thank Nellie for her good work and for the work of the 70 people, as I understood your footnote, which were affiliated with it, and for the presentation we just had.  I distinguish between the faucet, which is how we address monetary policy, and the sprinkler system, which is how we water the lawn of the economy.  That is, we either have it distributed properly so that we don’t kill it with inflation, or starve it and destroy it with deflation.  I think this financial stability aspect of it is very, very important.  The transmission mechanism is critical.  And I do want to tip my hat to Governor Tarullo for the work he is doing in terms of “too big to fail,” which to me is one of the major hindrances to the proper conduct of monetary policy—all the work he is doing on capital ratios and other aspects of getting our system right.  I think it is very important that we focus on the shadow banking system and the trip wires that are out there—for example, those that Eric and the staff have pointed out—because it puts us in a very difficult position. One of the risks that I think we need to contemplate and that I worry about is the possibility that we could have a significant selloff in the market.  This wasn’t discussed in terms of financial stability, but having been a market operator, I know these things can happen sometimes inexplicably.  Let’s say that we had a 20 percent selloff in the S&P.  What would we do.  I’m going to switch here from the sprinkler system to what I call the soufflé; soufflés don’t rise twice.  And by that I mean that I’m not sure that we can just pour on more large-scale asset purchases or more quantitative easing.  I think the impact of this, as it goes through time, becomes less and less potent.  I would ask you to consider that as a financial stability risk, in addition to the specifics we have gone through in terms of the specific banks, the short-term funding of those banks, the exposure of money market mutual funds, and also some of the risks that you have in your much longer paper dealing with, say, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.  I think this is a very valuable exercise.  I don’t think we can conduct monetary policy without considering how the sprinkler system works and what Rube Goldberg devices are being attached onto it or where the leaks are and what the repair mechanism needs to be.  I think this should be a part of our ongoing discussions.  It is so much better than we had before.  When Governor Warsh was here, he would bring up certain issues, I would bring up issues, others would bring up issues—this is much more systematic.  Again, I want to pat you on the back, Nellie.  And if I could pat 70 other people on the back, I would.  Having an organized discussion here rather than pulling out layers of anecdotal evidence that we can layer on top is very, very important.  So I want that to go down as registered. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I agree with you, President Fisher.  I think we are making very good progress, with the intermeeting memos, the operations of the Office of Financial Stability, and these kinds of discussions.  Your comments raised a useful point.  At the beginning you talked about a number of things, like the shadow banking system and so on, which might be amenable to regulatory or microeconomic-type policies.  I think it’s important for us to have enough granularity so that we can decide when the first line of defense is appropriately microeconomic regulation, which gives more cushion to monetary policy to focus on macroeconomic conditions.  But the stock market is an example where microeconomic regulation probably wouldn’t work, and we want to think about that, although I resist any Greenspan–Bernanke put ideas. President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Fisher and President Kocherlakota are expressing appreciation for the work being done, agreeing with each other's points, and discussing the importance of considering the various aspects of financial stability in monetary policy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 132.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Now I want to mention some anecdotal evidence, following up on something President Hoenig said.  My banking supervision group and I have heard concerns expressed repeatedly from banks that specialize in ag lending about what they consider weak or lax underwriting practices being used by the Farm Credit System.  Now, the Farm Credit System, when you think about the big banks in the United States, is relatively small—it’s $200 billion in assets—but it owns about one-third of all the farm debt in the United States.  Its failure is an interesting thing to think about, because it wouldn’t be systemic from the point of view of the U.S. economy, but it would certainly be systemic, I believe, in terms of the agricultural sector, which is often viewed as being more significant from a national perspective than its weight in the national income and product accounts would suggest. The Farm Credit System is a government-sponsored enterprise; it raises funds by issuing debt, and that debt is highly rated, probably because it’s a government-sponsored enterprise.  Now, I have to say that we should take into account that our banker contacts who tell us that the Farm Credit System’s underwriting practices are lax are competitors with the Farm Credit System, and their concern should be viewed in that light.  At the same time, the fact that we kept hearing about this means I think that those comments are sufficiently prevalent to warrant further investigation by the Board of Governors, and perhaps by the FSOC.  One thing that’s worth noting is that the FSOC has no representation from the Farm Credit Administration, who is the safety and soundness overseer for the Farm Credit System.  So in some sense, there is no direct way for this to get to the attention of the FSOC.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Nellie. MS. LIANG.  This issue has come up.  The FSOC and the Board have had that discussion.  The FDIC is also concerned.  You’re right, the Farm Credit System does have about one-third of the outstanding farm credit debt.  On your point about its failure, it has a huge surplus so that seems not to be an issue.  But we have heard complaints about them causing community banks to loosen their standards.  We have been watching it.  Whether it’s a systemic issue or if it’s just something to point out and have examiners be aware of this issue is still in discussion, but it’s good to hear it being raised again. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is some disagreement or contention in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Kocherlakota, expresses concerns about weak underwriting practices by the Farm Credit System, while also acknowledging that these concerns come from competitors of the Farm Credit System. Ms. Liang responds by saying that the issue has been discussed by the FSOC and the Board, but it is still being debated whether it is a systemic issue or just something for examiners to be aware of. This difference in opinion suggests some level of disagreement.


Passage number 133.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I would be interested, Mr. Chairman, from your own perspective, in how the FSOC is working and how that process is going.  Do you have any observations. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, as is often the case, all the real work gets done by the staff, and I will ask Nellie to comment in just a second.  [Laughter] We have a meeting only about every eight weeks or so.  We’re doing some important assigned tasks, like developing the criteria for evaluating SIFIs.  We’ve also had some useful interactions:  As I mentioned earlier, I think that the money market mutual fund discussions have moved the SEC’s position and have increased the possibility of a stronger credential system for money market mutual funds.  But because it only meets periodically, it doesn’t have the ongoing working relationships that would be necessary for a truly interactive and effective council.  That being said, of course, we have bilateral relationships with many of the members, and they’ve been quite extensive in the process of Dodd–Frank rulemaking, for example.  Moreover, there are many committees of the FSOC, which are made up of senior staff and even deputy principals in some cases, and my sense is that a lot is happening in those.  Perhaps Nellie could give us her sense of how it is working. MS. LIANG.  Yes.  There are about five or six committees that have been set up.  One is the Systemic Risk Committee, and that one is very busy trying to write an annual report, which will be released, we expect, near the end of July.  That’s a key committee that I think is going to form the core of what FSOC will do going forward.  It wasn’t as active over the past year.  Going forward, it’s designed to get staff together to discuss emerging risks they’re seeing.  So you would have the SEC and the CFTC and all of the banking regulators, et cetera, get together and have discussions that will allow issues about risks to bubble.  Then that committee would make decisions about what to bring to the principals for discussion.  In the past year there hasn’t been a lot of discussion because there has been so much work under Dodd–Frank to finish.  There has been a whole slew of studies and proposed rules to write.  As a result, when the principals get together, it’s just all about approving a study or rules, without much opportunity for discussion.  But I think that will change.  One of the two big issues on the table right now that the principals have started to engage in, and the staff has worked quite a bit on, is the designation of the nonbank systemically important institutions.  The FSOC was heavily criticized for not being very transparent about how they were going about this process.  They were going to put out a proposed rule in May and pulled that back, but we’ll put out another document for comment fairly soon.  We are trying put something out to the public that reduces some of the uncertainty about what institutions might be evaluated further for designation.  There is a view out there that the designation could encompass hundreds of firms; because there is just so much uncertainty, there’s an effort to try to reduce some of it. The second piece right now is the annual report.  There will be a couple of sections on topics like:  What does the system look like.  How it has evolved since the financial crisis.  There will be a big section on emerging threats.  It won’t sound too different from what some of you have been hearing lately in terms of what the key threats or the vulnerabilities in the system are, including bank capital, liquidity, money markets, and infrastructure.  And then there are some recommendations that we’re now crafting.  The principals will have to make decisions about which recommendations they would want to include in the annual report and to sign the reports.  That’s what will be going on over the next four to six weeks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 134.
 MR. FISHER.  What’s the time frame. MS. LIANG.  The goal is to release something in late July.  Dodd–Frank’s anniversary is July 21, and something around that time is the goal. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Mr. Fisher, did you have a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Fisher and Ms. Liang are discussing the goal of releasing something in late July, specifically around the anniversary of Dodd-Frank on July 21st. There is no indication of any conflicting opinions or disagreement between them.


Passage number 135.
 MR. FISHER.  When you say they’re going to issue suggestions, are these remedies to mitigate the risk or to deal with risk if it occurs. MS. LIANG.  For example, if we were to highlight vulnerabilities—the banking system, capital cushions, short-term funding instability, for example—the recommendations could be to continue to pursue money market reforms, which probably is something that the FSOC has come to view as important because they have made a lot of progress on money markets.  On the bank capital, it could be to implement the Dodd–Frank enhanced prudential standards, plus to have the supervisors continue with their CCAR exercises, the internal capital planning processes, something along those lines.  These will all get negotiated over the next few months, but it would tend to be structural, regulatory reform at this point, trying to stay away from fiscal policy and monetary policy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other comments.  [No response]  All right.  I hope that was helpful, and it is certainly the case that Nellie and many other people have contributed to making financial stability a more explicit part of our policy discussion.  I think it’s only to the good to do that.  All right, we’re ready now for our economic go-round, and I’ll start with President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speakers are discussing potential recommendations to mitigate risk in the banking system and capital cushions. There is no disagreement or argument presented in the passage.


Passage number 136.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Since our last meeting, my business contacts in New England have turned surprisingly negative.  This negative sentiment particularly pertains to smaller businesses that are not seeing significant increases in demand and are deciding to put off additional hiring or investments until it is clear that we have a more self-sustaining recovery.  When I press these business leaders on the causes for their change in sentiment, they focus on domestic, not international, concerns, and particularly cite that incoming data continue to surprise on the downside, and they do not see what will turn that around.  Unfortunately, I share the disappointment with the incoming data.  For most of this recovery, the Boston forecast, like many other forecasts, has expected that in a couple of quarters, economic growth would pick up.  However, with each additional quarter we keep pushing back when the self-sustaining recovery begins.  Since the beginning of the recovery, we have only grown slightly above potential, and our forecasts have been too optimistic, resulting in serially correlated errors. What accounts for the inability of this recovery to make significant headway in reducing the significant slack in the economy.  First, I think we have underestimated the financial headwinds generated by the financial crisis.  The impaired balance sheet of many consumers and businesses reduces their access to capital and makes them sufficiently risk averse that they are not anxious to take risks even if loans are available.  Second, our housing policies have been unsuccessful.  Housing prices are unlikely to rise as long as there’s a large overhang of vacant and foreclosed homes.  We need policies that return people to sustainable housing situations but quickly remove the inventory of unsold homes.  Housing is one of the sources of serially correlated errors in the forecast, and our research suggests those errors explain a significant fraction of recent forecast errors, a greater fraction than can be explained by housing’s share in GDP or its obvious connection to household durable goods purchases.  Third, more recently we have underestimated the move to more austerity at local, state, and federal levels. What’s my current forecast.  Well, the Boston forecast, once again, foresees an acceleration in economic growth in a couple of quarters.  And while it’s technically a self-sustaining recovery, the growth rates we envision in the out quarters continue to slip lower and lower.  While such acceleration is our best guess, I am becoming less and less confident that we will actually get that outcome, and even with that forecast of accelerating growth, I’m expecting the unemployment rate to remain above 8 percent at the end of 2012. So what about inflation.  The DSGE models presented earlier had inflation in 2013 ranging from 0.3 percent to 1.5 percent.  The Tealbook has inflation measured as core or total PCE at 1.5 percent in 2012.  The Boston inflation forecast is a little below the Tealbook forecast.  Thus, despite some increase in core inflation from extremely low levels, these forecasts all expect us to be well below 2 percent at the end of the forecast period.  I would also note that some of the increase in current measured inflation is related to higher measures of owners’ equivalent rent.  This is striking given that mortgage rates have fallen, housing prices have fallen, and foreclosures remain elevated.  So at a time of increasing affordability for new home buyers, their reticence or inability to purchase new homes has caused a shift to rentals.  I would view this as reflecting more the dysfunction of the current housing market than any significant risk that inflation in the medium term was at risk of breaching my target of 2 percent. If these forecasts are right, we will continue to miss on both elements of our mandate for several more years.  What about the risks to this forecast.  I see significant risks to the downside, but I will focus only on one, the international risk.  While the Europeans may manage a temporary infusion of money for Greece, I am seeing little evidence of significant mitigation of the underlying problem.  The primary deficit remains problematic.  The debt-to-GDP ratio continues to rise, there seems to be limited political tolerance for more austerity in Greece, and the political desire in the rest of Europe to subsidize Greece seems to be ebbing with the passing of time.  Given my modal forecast and assessment of risks, it’s critically important that the economy begin to grow above potential.  Tomorrow I will discuss the implications of this assessment for an appropriate monetary policy that balances all of the risks in the economic recovery.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of one person's observations and assessments of the current economic situation.


Passage number 137.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The Eighth District economy is showing some signs of a slowdown consistent with recent developments in the national economy.  However, the June data, where available, do seem to indicate better business conditions going forward.  Transportation companies in particular reported good business in the first weeks of June.  Large firms remain lean and profitable, with plenty of cash.  They are looking for opportunities to expand to take advantage of the continuing boom in Asia.  The agricultural industry in the District has been slowed by a wet spring, but poor weather has not so far been enough to hamper the outlook for agribusiness income in 2011.  The recent pullback in commodity prices is likely to be helpful for many District businesses, as it means more disposable income for households.  It appears that the recent experience with $4 per gallon gasoline did not significantly dent volumes at a major convenience store retail chain. The District experience with consumer behavior and response to gas prices provides a small piece of evidence that Hamilton is right.  Jim Hamilton, from the University of California–San Diego, has argued over many years that an oil price shock must send the price of oil significantly higher than recently experienced in order to really alter household behavior in a large enough way to send the economy into a prolonged downturn.  And $4 per gallon gas has reduced disposable income for other purchases, to be sure, but does not appear to have caused a wholesale change in household behavior as it did in 2008.  Partly because of this, it seems reasonable to me to look through the recent weakness in U.S. data toward better prospects for the second half of this year. The U.S. economic outlook has been weighed down during the spring because of four global events, any one of which could develop into a significant global macroeconomic shock.  I think none of the four will actually become a shock large enough to put the United States into recession.  However, we have worked our way through only two and one-half of these events.  The events are Japan, oil price increases due to disruptions in supply coming from the Middle East, the European sovereign debt crisis, and the U.S. fiscal situation.  The effects of the disaster in Japan, while more significant than I had originally through, are now fading and are projected to be temporary.  Commodity prices are retreating, as we sit here at this meeting.  Europe is in the process of trying to resolve its way through the latest hurdle, but remains worrying as several, including Vice Chairman Dudley, have commented already.  There are certainly worrying questions about the willingness of Greece to repay under any conditions.  There’s no real longer-term solution on the table.  I think restructuring will eventually be necessary.  I think it can be carried off effectively, but right now it seems quite difficult to do without causing a global crisis or further crisis in Europe.  Despite all this, I think a temporary solution is likely and will push this off to some future date.  On the U.S. fiscal situation, I think a deal is possible and likely, but that event lies a little bit ahead of where we sit today.  All in all, I think this assessment augurs for looking through the current weakness.  The slowdown that we have seen so far in the United States this year does not strike me as being as severe as the one last summer that led to further easing by this Committee. The prognosis for a second-half resurgence and a resolution of remaining key risks requires patience on the part of the Committee.  We will have to wait and see whether stronger data materialize or are confirmed before we can evaluate the situation further.  That puts the Committee in a “wait and see” mode for the time being.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is presenting their opinion and analysis of the current state of the Eighth District economy and the global events that may impact it. They offer a positive outlook for the second half of the year but also acknowledge the potential risks and uncertainties.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 138.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As widely noted, we’ve hit another soft patch.  The key question is, what are the causes.  Only by understanding the reasons for the soft patch can we gain confidence about its duration and the medium-term trajectory of the economy.  It’s clear that some special temporary factors played a role.  First, the run-up in gasoline prices crimped real disposable income, and this weighed on consumer spending and confidence.  Supply disruptions stemming from the Japanese catastrophe limited motor vehicle output, and may have also depressed demand, as incentives were cut and some popular models were in short supply.  In addition, there is considerable sentiment for the view that the ongoing housing market mess has played a role, with renewed weakness in home prices crimping household wealth and dampening confidence.  And the price declines may have caused prospective home buyers to hold off, even though housing affordability has improved dramatically over the past few years.  Bankers and other business people we talked to also cite regulatory uncertainty, although it’s hard to see why, if this were indeed important, it would bite so abruptly. Regardless of the cause, the weakness of the economy has to be viewed as quite striking at a time when monetary policy is viewed as very stimulative and the healing process following the crisis is evident in a number of areas, including household debt service burdens and credit availability.  I would argue that there is a bit of a puzzle here.  I’d like to suggest that there may be another factor—namely, monetary policy may not be as stimulative as we think it is.  In this regard, I’m not arguing that monetary stimulus is less powerful than normal because of the housing mess or the fact that there are still necessary balance sheet adjustments in train.  I’m making a different argument—that the degree by which monetary policy at a given accommodative setting stimulates real economic activity may diminish over time.  This is not something that we’ve had much experience with, because normally the economy responds quite rapidly to easier monetary conditions.  As a result, this will not show up empirically very clearly in our models or via econometric estimation.  Put simply, we typically don’t stay at very accommodative settings very long, so we don’t have much empirical evidence by which to judge this. Let me explain what I mean in a bit more detail.  Monetary policy at a given setting might provide less lift to the economy over time because either the linkage between the federal funds rate and financial conditions or the linkage between financial conditions and the real economy may weaken over time.  For example, as short-term interest rates stay low, the yield curve will flatten and stock prices will rise, but eventually the yield curve will have a more normal shape and the stimulative effects of monetary policy will peter out.  Japan would be a good example of this.  Similarly, the effects of easier financial conditions on aggregate demand may also diminish over time.  Consider, for example, the prospective homebuyer or car purchaser who responds to a drop in interest rates by moving up the timing of the purchase.  The homebuyer or car purchaser who purchases today will then not purchase tomorrow.  To the extent that monetary policy influences the timing of purchases, its effects will peter out over time. If I am correct that the degree of stimulus at a given rate setting to the economy lessens over time, this has a number of important implications.  First, we might need to increase our degree of accommodation to have the same desired effect as earlier.  Of course, this may not be easy to do at the zero lower bound and with an already enlarged balance sheet.  If we cannot or will not do more, we should expect the recovery to be less robust because monetary policy has lost some of its power.  Second, it implies that exit might need to wait until later because monetary policy will become less stimulative over time just as a natural matter of course.  There may be less reason to exit early because the degree of monetary policy stimulus naturally wears off over time.  Third, early tightening might actually exert considerably more restraint than we anticipate if policy is not providing that much of an impetus to economic growth at present.  We don’t have much experience sitting at the zero lower bound for years, and I hope we won’t repeat this in the future.  That’s why I think we must be open-minded and challenge our assumptions that the current stance of monetary policy is as stimulative as we think it is.  I have encouraged my staff to work on this issue, and I would encourage others to do so as well.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker is suggesting that monetary policy may not be as stimulative as others think and that the effects of monetary stimulus may diminish over time. This is a different argument from the commonly held view and challenges the assumptions about the effectiveness of current monetary policy.


Passage number 139.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First of all, our region has slowed as others have around the May–June time period.  We are seeing some pickup more recently.  Our regional factory activity has decelerated a little more than we thought it would, but it has appeared to stabilize, and we’ve seen some real pickup in our technology industry, especially in the communications sector.  Certainly energy remains strong and agriculture remains strong, with very sizable profits in those sectors. Turning to the national economy, I do expect that the outlook over the next several years is one of moderate growth for GDP.  I think that reflects the fact that we are going through a necessary rebalancing due to both demographics and leverage, as households, especially an entire generation, are saying, “I want to get this debt off my balance sheet.”  And we have a younger generation that had too much and has to get it off the balance sheet, and they’re pulling back.  Businesses are repositioning themselves, and certainly local governments have to get rid of a lot of commitments and a lot of debt.  The federal government is the only exception to that at the moment, and we see what they’re doing with that.  I do, though, expect a resumption of moderate growth.  I think it’s a testament to this economy that, given the amount of leverage we are trying to work our way through, we have seen economic growth at 2½ to 3 percent.  As far as inflation goes, I think it’s inevitable as long as we keep our policy as accommodative as it is.  It will slowly—not rapidly, but slowly—increase, and we will have to watch that as we go forward from here.  In terms of the risks, I think they’re real.  I think we have a very fragile equilibrium.  If you think about how many things we’re worried about that could draw us back into a slowdown, it’s pretty amazing.  And when a situation in a country the size of Greece has the world at risk, we know how fragile this economy of ours is, global and nationally. Solutions are not simple, I realize, and I know that’s a discussion for tomorrow, but I’m not sure that keeping ourselves in this highly accommodative situation indefinitely will do anything but make it more fragile to where something very minor will tip us back, and that’s what we have to be mindful of.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mostly an assessment of the current economic situation and potential risks.


Passage number 140.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to give my own rendition on a theme on which Eric, Jeff, and Bill have already played variations—and that is, the way in which the gap between what most people, including many of us, expected in terms of the recovery and what has actually happened should affect the intellectual constructs that we are bringing right now in thinking about policy.  If you count this quarter as complete, there have been eight quarters since positive GDP growth reappeared in the middle of 2009.  And of those eight, growth was significantly above trend in only two, 2009:Q4 and 2010:Q1.  These, of course, are the two quarters that probably benefited the most from stimulus spending and, to some degree, probably from relief that a full collapse of the financial system had been averted.  There is only one other quarter with above 3 percent annualized growth, and just barely so.  Of the other five, one was just about at trend, given the central tendency in our forecast, and four of the eight had economic growth well below trend, as reflected in the central tendency.  So this looks to me a lot less like a case of cruising along and occasionally hitting a soft patch than a case of slogging through mud and once or twice hitting a stretch of dry pavement. Similarly, while the supply disruptions caused by the Japanese earthquake are surely transitory, the lower level of defense outlays early this year probably is, and the run-up in commodity prices may be, I recall that some other less-than-robust growth quarters over the past couple of years have also been explained by reference to transitory factors.  The factors in question may well have been transitory, but new negative transitory factors still seem to keep cropping up.  This pattern suggests that the dominant narrative during the past year and a half of a recovery characterized by solid, if unspectacular, growth as the economy recovers from a serious recession may not be the best diagnosis of what has been going on.  And if that’s the case, there are obviously potential implications for policy.  And, in fact, to wrap in the earlier discussion, I think the differences among the DSGE models that Michael was explaining earlier today reflect a lot of this, because, as we saw, the depressing New York Fed DSGE model seems to do best, I think, because it places so much weight on the breakdown of financial intermediation, which is obviously related to what we’ve seen over the past couple of years.  This leads to a search for a better explanation for the past couple of years, one in which I know the Board staff is vigorously engaged right now, and some suggestions about which were offered earlier by Jeff and Bill.  Jeff offered what I might characterize as a neo-declinist explanation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply giving their own perspective and interpretation of the data and discussing the potential implications for policy.


Passage number 141.
 MR. LACKER.  I thought it was neoclassical.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement expressed in the passage. The speaker simply states their opinion about something, without conflicting views being presented.


Passage number 142.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ve always assumed that this was the time to ask a question about the optimal policy chart that’s in the second part of the Tealbook because we don’t do it at other times.  One thing raised in our discussion of DSGE models yesterday is the possibility of using that type of analysis to do an optimal policy exercise, which we might be more comfortable with.  But until then, we have FRB/US, with which I am also pretty comfortable.  This time I notice that the inflation projection with the funds rate constant is not really different than the counterfactual in which the funds rate is allowed to be negative.  While there doesn’t seem to be much discrepancy in these paths, I will note that the core inflation path is a lot higher than the Tealbook extended forecast.  First, I was curious as to why that’s the case.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 143.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think that the optimal policy run that we do in the Tealbook Book B is coming out in a different place.  If you look at the civilian unemployment rate to the left, at the end of 2012, it’s down around 7 percent, which is pretty low, and inflation, as you say, is up closer to 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of someone's perspective.


Passage number 144.
 MR. EVANS.  I think this optimal unemployment rate path is lower than what the extended Tealbook forecast is, right.  Is that what you’re saying.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Evans merely seeks clarification regarding a specific point.


Passage number 145.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think that’s right.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Is that because the Tealbook extension respects the zero lower bound and the optimal control exercise doesn’t.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states a belief and then asks a clarifying question.


Passage number 146.
 MR. ENGLISH.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 147.
 MR. EVANS.  That’s the interesting feature of this particular simulation, it seems to me.  And yet the inflation path is about a quarter to a half a point higher than in the Tealbook and still at about 2 percent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Dave Reifschneider has a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents an observation and discusses inflation rates without any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 148.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Yes.  The model is respecting the zero lower bound.  What policy is doing in the optimal control exercise is promising to hold the funds rate lower further out in the future, so that the economy is stronger further out in the future than it is in the Tealbook baseline.  Because the model is run under rational expectations, people recognize the economy will be stronger.  Marginal costs in the future will be stronger, and the labor market will be stronger.  Recognizing that future strength changes their inflation expectations.  That causes upfront inflation to be higher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply explains the concept of the model and the effects of promising to hold the funds rate lower in the future.


Passage number 149.
 MR. EVANS.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply mentions that Mr. Evans expresses thanks and asks if there are any other questions for President Fisher.


Passage number 150.
 MR. FISHER.  Bill, when you say that alternative C would upset the markets, you’re referring to the third paragraph, I presume, and I would be curious if you would be kind enough, from your perspective, to parse the difference between paragraphs 1 and 2 in B and C.  Other than one sentence, which is in alternative C, paragraph 2—“However, the upside risks to inflation have increased somewhat,”—is there really a significant difference between the first two paragraphs of B and C.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and information from Bill.


Passage number 151.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think the end of paragraph 1 is somewhat different as well.  To my ear, the end of paragraph 1 in C expresses a little more concern about inflation by saying, “Inflation has picked up in recent months, as firms are facing cost pressures from increased commodity prices and import prices have risen,” as opposed to the end of alternative B that says “Inflation has picked up in recent months, mainly reflecting higher prices for some commodities and imported goods, as well as the recent supply chain disruptions.”  I think by parsing it that way, it sounds a little bit more like it’s due to temporary factors, at least to my ear.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. English is simply expressing his subjective opinion about the difference in tone and emphasis between two alternative versions of a paragraph.


Passage number 152.
 MR. FISHER.  And maybe the difference is that one sentence in alternative C, paragraph 2, “the upside risks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply stating a possible difference in one sentence of alternative C.


Passage number 153.
” MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not present any signs of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 154.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Let me say one quick thing, but an important thing.  First, I thank you for your comments on the mock-up statement.  Those were very helpful.  I think the language is better.  As Bill mentioned, following your input, we did not include the projections numbers in the statement.  However, there are a range of issues here that need to be addressed:  To what extent we do refer to targets.  How do we communicate.  That includes inflation objectives, but also what we project in the SEP and a number of other issues related to our communications. I want to thank Janet’s subcommittee for its good work on guidelines on external communication and on the press conference, and we will, of course, be discussing those guidelines shortly.  But given that there are still important unresolved issues relating to our communication of monetary policy, including our projections and so on, I’ve asked Janet to take her subcommittee into a new phase to look at these monetary policy communications issues, including such issues as how we best use our projections.  So Janet has asked President Plosser, President Evans, and Governor Raskin to join her in some further discussions of our policy communication, and I just wanted you to know that that process will continue.  As the process continues, she will solicit your input and, of course, will bring any developments to the full Committee for discussion.   Any questions.  [No response]  If not, let’s begin our go-round, and I see President Lockhart first.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not have any contention or disagreement. It is mainly providing an update on the progress of discussions and decisions regarding the communication of monetary policy.


Passage number 155.
  MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  As I said in yesterday’s round, I continue to see the most probable path of the economy as expansion at a moderate pace, and I also continue to forecast subdued inflation once the effects of the earlier oil and commodity price increases dissipate.  But I do think we are at a difficult juncture.  The economic data have underperformed.  My outlook, like many, has been marked down moderately, and there are abundant downside risks as well as increased shock vulnerability.  At the same time, the uncertainty around the inflation outlook has increased, and upside inflation risks remain.  I think maintaining the current extent of accommodation will help mitigate some of the downside risks to the outlook. Turning to the statement, the characterization of the economy in alternative B is broadly consistent with my own reading of the current circumstances and outlook.  I do think, however, that the context in which the Committee would be issuing the alternative B language involves heightened and shifting risks, and I note that the draft statement is silent on risks to the outlook.  If the Chairman were not doing a press conference after this meeting, the public would learn three weeks later that the central tendency of the Committee’s forecast has been written down somewhat, and the balance of risks adjusted to a meaningful extent.  Absent the press conference, a disconnect might be perceived between the statement and the later accompanying information.  I think today’s press conference affords the Chairman the opportunity, if you wish or if you get the question, to convey the Committee’s sense of the risk context.  But overall I’m satisfied with the current draft of alternative B, and I suggest no changes.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  But, of course, the actual projections will be released, so the markdown of the forecast for economic growth will be seen.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Lockhart, expresses support for alternative B and acknowledges the difficult juncture the economy is facing. He also mentions the increased uncertainty around the inflation outlook and suggests that maintaining the current extent of accommodation will help mitigate downside risks. He is satisfied with the current draft of alternative B and suggests no changes. There is no indication of disagreement or contention with others in the passage.


Passage number 156.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As I discussed yesterday, we have been missing on both elements of our mandate for several years.  And according to the Tealbook, the Boston forecast, or the DSGE models in the presentation yesterday, we will be missing for many more.  Economic growth at potential, when inflation is too low and unemployment too high, should not be acceptable.  Unless we begin to see clear evidence of a self-sustaining recovery above and beyond the temporary surge we expect next quarter as disruptions from Japan and energy prices abate, our focus should be on what additional stimulus should be considered at future meetings. Alternative A provides more clarity around the size of our balance sheet and the first increase in short-term interest rates.  Another option would be to reduce the interest rate on excess reserves to zero.  This would provide some marginal incentive for banks to lend.  One of the concerns with eliminating interest on reserves was the effect on money market funds.  Given that money market funds are already placing many of their assets in Europe, and that the possible exit of smaller, less viable money market funds may make financial markets more stable, this option seems more attractive than it once did.  A third option is to lengthen the duration of our security purchases.  Should the economy start growing less than potential with the unemployment rate rising and the inflation rate declining, we would need to consider additional asset purchases.  My hope is that at this time, the forecast of a self-sustaining recovery becomes a reality.  However, if we continue to be disappointed, the longer-term impact of substantial slack and low inflation rates should not be underestimated.  Given the relatively unsupportive fiscal policy we expect, we need to ensure that we are able to fulfill our mandate within an acceptable period of time. In terms of language, I want to follow up on Dennis’s comment.  We don’t publish the balance of risks.  So I think another thing for Janet’s subcommittee to consider is whether the charts on balance of risk might also be something that we would start providing publicly.  I agree with Dennis that the risks to GDP growth did change quite substantially in the charts that were handed out yesterday, and that the charts showed that the risks for inflation have become more balanced.  One way to capture that would be to take the third sentence from paragraph 2 in alternative A, which says, “The Committee perceives that the downside risks to the economic outlook have increased somewhat.”  I think that captures what is embedded in those pictures.  In your press conference you are likely to either be asked or talk about what our exit strategy is.  I think it’s important to balance that with the reality of the downside risks that this Committee sees, and that I think the public at large sees.  It will help emphasize the fact that the purpose of talking about the exit strategy is to say that, when appropriate, we have the tools necessary.  But right now is not the time to be actually employing those tools, because we are concerned about the economic outlook.  So the only change to language would be to take that one sentence and place it in the same spot in alternative B.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a speech by Mr. Rosengren discussing the need for additional stimulus and the potential options for the Federal Reserve to consider. The passage also includes Mr. Rosengren's agreement with a comment made by someone named Dennis and his suggestion for language to be included in the committee's statement.


Passage number 157.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I counsel patience at this juncture.  I think alternative B puts the Committee in a good position to wait and see how the data come in over the summer.  My expectation is that key risks will be resolved in the next weeks and months, and that we’ll see stronger data in the coming months and quarters.  But we are going to have to get confirmation on that before we can make further decisions.  So I think it’s a good point to pause. I just have one other comment.  I have been an advocate of state-contingent policy.  Today we are ending a QE2 program in the midst of a weakening outlook; that puts the Committee and the Chairman in a difficult position.  It would be nice to end a program like this when the data say so and not when the calendar says so.  That’s the key advantage of a state-contingent approach, and I hope we will adopt more of that going forward.  But I think this situation nicely illustrates the dangers of putting calendar dates on things.  If the economy doesn’t cooperate with you, it puts you in a bit of an awkward position.  Not that we can’t handle it, and not that we can’t get through it, but it is a bit awkward.  If we were in a normal interest rate targeting environment, that is what we would do.  We would make adjustments more on a meeting-by-meeting basis in response to events in the economy and not on a calendar basis.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing his belief that it is a good idea to wait and see how the data comes in before making further decisions. He also expresses his support for a state-contingent policy approach, rather than relying on calendar dates. However, he does not directly oppose or disagree with any other viewpoints mentioned in the passage.


Passage number 158.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The issue, I think, for the U.S. economy is the fact that households and businesses and financial institutions are in the process of deleveraging.  But with adjustments like these under way, the economy grows at a moderate pace, and I doubt that we can stimulate strong growth anytime soon through monetary policy, given the deleveraging that has to take place.  And as much as we would like monetary policy to solve the growth problems in the economy, I think it is beyond its reach.  In my view, accommodative policy generally is appropriate.  I remain convinced that what I think of as excessive accommodation will set conditions for the next set of problems and potentially the next crisis.  Going forward, I think the Committee should consider ways to limit the amount of accommodation that we put in place.  Experience suggests to me that we often react to negative outcomes by easing policy extensively and often.  This easing bias artificially stimulates the economy for a time, as has been noted, and eventually the positive effects of the artificial stimulus fade off.  When the negative effects, such as financial imbalances, emerge, we are forced to engage in even more accommodative policy to combat the ensuing downturn.  In this way, we become enmeshed in what I think of as an unfavorable cycle of easy policies to offset effects of previous easy policies.  And I think it’s a very tenuous way to approach this.  What I’d like to see instead is that we do keep policy accommodative but within boundaries, so that it would not be excessively so.  And I think we’re at a point where using the exit strategy that we’ve worked on can set the context for going forward.  It can address some of what we might call an unstable situation that we have from an extended easy policy that we can’t get out of.  And it would enable us to more gradually bring policy away from this excessive accommodation toward more modest accommodation, and preclude future problems that are years ahead, perhaps, but nevertheless ahead.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 159.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I favor alternative B.  We are experiencing what looks to be a transitory slowdown in growth, and a transitory bulge in inflation.  If I am still allowed to use this word, “underlying” inflation remains moderate, and the recovery should gain strength over time.  Given the sizable slack and the expected decline in inflation, the current very accommodative stance of monetary policy remains entirely appropriate.  Indeed, I would like to echo President Rosengren’s comments:  I worry that 2011 could become a replay of 2010, and we should be thinking ahead to what we would do if the economy stagnates and the risk of sustained deflation reemerges. Finally, I have a comment on the wording of the statement.  In paragraph 3 of alternative B, I’m a little uneasy with the addition of the phrase, “The Committee decided today to maintain the current degree of monetary policy accommodation,” which to me is vague and perhaps misleading.  The special box in Tealbook Book B makes clear that the degree of monetary accommodation—and I am thinking in terms of stimulus—from our large-scale asset purchases is actually declining by the equivalent of about a 25 basis point hike in the funds rate every other quarter, according to our back-of-the-envelope calculations.  This occurs in the Tealbook because the date of the expected future normalization of the balance sheet is drawing near.  I prefer a simpler way to describe policy.  I would delete the phrase about monetary accommodation.  Instead, my suggestion is to begin paragraph 3 with “To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee will keep the range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.”  And then, “It continues to anticipate that economic conditions,” et cetera.  I think this is clearer and, in fact, in a technical sense, more accurate.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply the opinion and suggestion of Mr. Williams.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 160.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The economic recovery has hit another soft patch.  The near-term economic growth is weaker than I anticipated it would be earlier this year.  But so far the recent weak data have not materially changed my view on the path of the recovery in the intermediate term.  I expect both growth to accelerate in the second half of this year and into next year, a bit above trend, and the unemployment rate to go down gradually. I have for some time argued in this Committee that the shocks that have hit our economy in this crisis have had important permanent elements to them.  As a consequence, I have tried to argue that the traditional measures of resource slack may be overstated, and that, in fact, there were limits to the effectiveness of monetary policy to mitigate some of this fall in potential output.  To that end, I support the Chairman’s proposal to begin characterizing our exit strategy in public communications, including the postmeeting press conference and his monetary policy report to the Congress.  I would also encourage us to continue our discussion of explicit inflation objectives as well.  The press briefing and testimony format allow for a fuller discussion of such an objective to help anchor expectations as we exit and to explain how a numerical objective would help fit into the context of our dual mandate.  Explaining the difference between the inflation objective and the unemployment rate, which is something beyond the control of monetary policy in the longer term, is both subtle and not easy.  Trying to do this in the statement would be too difficult, but the postmeeting press conferences and briefings are a way around that. Given the inflation developments and the economic outlook, I am increasingly uncomfortable with the funds rate sitting at zero.  The Taylor rule framework suggests that it is appropriate that we begin to remove accommodation as inflation accelerates and the unemployment rate falls, as forecasted last year.  Moreover, I am concerned that we are allowing imbalances to build up in the financial sector because the interest rates are so low.  I could easily see us simultaneously raising the funds rate by 50 basis points when we stop reinvestment.  In discussing the sequence of steps, we shouldn’t give the impression that large time frames can elapse between our sequencing of events.  We should make sure the public understands that even after we initialize normalization, monetary policy will remain fairly accommodative for some time to come.  To give the Committee more flexibility, and to prepare the public, we need to seriously consider changing the forward guidance and the reinvestment sometime in the next couple of meetings, if the current forecast plays out as anticipated. At this meeting, I can go along with alternative B.  I do have two observations about language.  The sentence in the first paragraph referring to “a loss of momentum in the labor market” strikes me as going somewhat beyond the facts.  I fear that phrases like “loss of momentum” connote to many some indication of a forecast and future path—that is, serial correlation that may or may not turn out to be the case.  The previous sentence in the first paragraph says that the pace of recovery is slow in the first half of the year, and to me that would seem to cover any additional observations we need to make about the labor market.  I’m not sure we need that sentence at all; I would just strike it.  But if that’s unacceptable, I would prefer to simply say in the second sentence, “Recent labor market indicators have been somewhat weaker than anticipated” and drop the word “momentum.” My second observation concerns the language in the last sentence of that paragraph about “longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.”  I raised this issue last time because at least some measures of longer-term expectations, if you look at TIPS over the past 10 months, have actually moved quite a bit, as much as 100 basis points on some measures.  Other measures of longer-term expectations, like the SPF and others, have been more stable, but they have historically been stable.  So I am worried about the connotation of longer-term expectations remaining stable.  I would suggest we replace “have remained stable” with “remain near historical norms.”  That’s all I have, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, expresses disagreement with some aspects of the passage. He disagrees with the statement about a "loss of momentum in the labor market" and suggests that it should be removed. He also disagrees with the language about "longer-term inflation expectations remaining stable" and suggests that it should be replaced with "remain near historical norms."


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 161.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I’m attempting to apply the Taylor principle to the joint package of accommodation that we have in place so that we are able to, in a sense, lower the fed funds rate below zero through the LSAP.  And so in that sense we’re able to have a policy of minus 2 percent through the stock of longer-term assets that we have.  As time passes, some of the effect of that stock, as President Williams has pointed out, will be reduced, but as inflation rises and slack shrinks, then we should be reducing that joint package of accommodation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Certainly, at some point.  Okay.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  From a policy perspective, recent developments have raised concerns about the degree of uncertainty and the balance of risks.  As I indicated yesterday in my outlook comments, I believe that we now face the difficult combination of still more uncertainty surrounding the outlook for economic growth and risks that are primarily to the downside for GDP growth and to the upside for inflation.  Under these circumstances, the economy could easily evolve along very different paths that could lead me to support either delaying or pulling forward the launch of our exit strategy.  So I believe this is an appropriate time to watch and wait, and alternative B strikes that right balance for today. Regarding the language, I agree with President Plosser’s suggestion to drop the second sentence in paragraph 1 on the loss of momentum in the labor markets.  One month’s data for me didn’t indicate a change in momentum.  So I would support dropping that sentence.  I think that the changes to the wording around inflation in alternative B will be viewed as another positive step in our effort to improve communication, but like President Plosser, I continue to believe that a useful next step would be to publicly announce an explicit numerical inflation objective with an identified time period.  A more specific time period for the objective could help the statement to be more specific on the inflation outlook when there is considerable uncertainty about when we are going to reach that mandate-consistent level of inflation, and I am pleased to hear that Governor Yellen’s subcommittee will continue to look at ways to improve our language and our communication.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. President Pianalto supports alternative B, while President Fisher's opinion is not revealed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 162.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I’m going to pick up where President Kocherlakota left off because I agree with his analysis and with his sentiment.  I’m getting increasingly close to alternative C, but I’m going to suggest at this meeting that we should play it up the middle and adopt alternative B.  The reasons for that are manyfold.  One is the weakness that we heard discussed at this meeting, although, like President Pianalto and President Plosser, I would say that one reporting period does not a trend make, and I would change the words as suggested in paragraph 1 and take out the “loss of momentum.”  I’ll come back to that in just a second.  The second reason is because we are in the midst of, I hope, the finalization of a budget/debt ceiling debate.  I’d like to keep the focus on fiscal policy; I don’t want monetary policy to be a distraction.  Third are the developments in Japan and Europe.  And the fourth is what I view as extreme market sensitivity to what we say and what we do at this juncture, despite the discussion we had yesterday and some apparent alleviation of what we detected a little bit last week.  So I would recommend playing it up the middle with alternative B. In terms of the language, I would like to support Presidents Williams’s and Kocherlakota’s suggestion to take out that part of the first sentence in paragraph 3—that is, to have it read, “To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee will keep the target range,” et cetera, and Presidents Plosser’s and Pianalto’s suggestion to remove “loss of momentum” in paragraph 1.  I must say that I find paragraphs 1 and 2 in alternative C, even with the conclusion we have in alternative B, to be much more palatable and, in fact, to reflect what I heard discussed yesterday.  I say that with a caveat of somebody who has been married 37 years and is a selective listener.  [Laughter]  But I do think—and Bill, I appreciate very much your including my comment on putting imported goods in the statement—it’s really the result of how firms react, and we did hear discussion, and it is a fact, that firms are reacting by trying to figure out if they can get away with raising costs or not.  While I don’t want to argue the point too hard, I’m much more sympathetic to the first two paragraphs in alternative C. I want to raise one flag of caution, Mr. Chairman.  I think President Williams is correct.  On either side we need to think about what we will do under different scenarios, and I think I understand what Bill is saying, but I’d be extremely careful about the concluding sentence you had in your summary, Mr. Chairman, about greater or extended accommodation that may be needed to achieve the intended effects.  I referenced a soufflé yesterday.  I couldn’t quite hear your response, but you said something about a Bernanke–Greenspan put.  There is an expectation in the market that that is out there.  I think the point that Bill was making—and I tried to make a little bit yesterday—is that the potency of our standard monetary accommodation, large-scale asset purchases, is diminishing over time.  That doesn’t mean we rule out trying to think of other alternatives, and I think that’s a good idea.  And there has even been a suggestion from President Rosengren that we consider other variables—in your case, the interest paid on excess reserves.  I would be very careful about how we state Bill’s point in the minutes.  And, again, I would do as little as possible in this statement and especially in your press conference—go right up the middle of the course, be very bland, and do nothing that upsets the marketplace or tilts the balance one way or another because we’re at a very uncertain point.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Let me quickly respond.  My summary, of course, was just trying to incorporate the comment the Vice Chairman made.  I’m not going to introduce speculative views into official communications.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. This is evident when Mr. Fisher states that he agrees with President Kocherlakota's analysis and sentiment, but then suggests adopting alternative B instead of alternative C. He also raises caution about the concluding sentence in the Chairman's summary and suggests being very careful about how it is stated in the minutes.


Passage number 163.
 MR. FISHER.  No, but how it’s reflected in the minutes is my point.  And I don’t disagree with Bill, by the way.  Bill and I have talked about this before.  But in terms of how we reflect it in the minutes, I think it’s very, very important.  We’re going to be scrutinized very carefully. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Of course, the minutes will be up for comment and approval, but I think it would, at most, say one person thought that.  On the Greenspan–Bernanke put, it was a statement of revulsion.  By the way, I don’t think it exists—you would think I would know if it did exist [laughter]—and I would like to discourage that perception.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 164.
 MR. FISHER.  And I would encourage you to discourage it.  You can’t come out and say that, but I’m glad to hear you say it.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay, thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not show contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher encourages President Evans to discourage something, and President Evans acknowledges and thanks him for his input.


Passage number 165.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Well, it’s tempting to say I agree with alternative B, but I will say that I thought Governor Tarullo articulated a very good point yesterday:  This recovery has been marred by sputtering and pauses, and it seems to me that we’ve never achieved escape velocity.  It is reasonable to wait and see today, and so I can support alternative B, but like President Rosengren, I think it is reasonable to consider next steps if we are, again, surprised by economic slowing.  That’s one reason why I was so interested in the FRB/US simulation under the alternative policy.  At first blush I couldn’t figure out why the inflation path was higher than what the extended Tealbook had, but then, of course, it is an optimal policy response.  When I first looked at it, I thought that the policy path was about the same, but, no, upon Dave Reifschneider’s response and looking more carefully, I see that it has more accommodation, and with that additional accommodation what we get from this modeling exercise is 2 percent core PCE inflation.  Well, that’s on target by most of our assessments.  So I thought that was good.  Now, as Dave Reifschneider mentioned, one of the reasons why you get that—and what makes the unemployment rate path better—is that we preannounce, in a rational expectations sense, that policy is going to be accommodative for that extended period of time, which is longer than what we’re saying in the Tealbook extension, and that anticipated accommodation has a benefit for the economy and how it plays out.  So I think that’s something to at least think about as we do this. Our goals are price stability and to support maximum sustainable employment, and monetary policy has been very responsive throughout this downturn to the economy and the financial situation, even though I know there are lots of complaints about how this has proceeded.  But now as things are beginning to change and the risks are more two sided, I think we have to seriously consider what we mean when we say that for inflation we have an objective of about 2 percent.  What do we mean as we begin to flirt with 2 percent.  And I really think that 2 percent should not be viewed as a ceiling and that if we were to breach the target, it would not be a particularly bad outcome.  We have had inflation well below that objective for a long period of time, and I think that, just as we have not been unduly concerned about lower inflation, we should not be predisposed against something perhaps above 2 percent, as long as inflation expectations are reasonable, as long as they’re anchored, and as long as the longer-term and medium-term paths are okay.  In that regard, I think we need to be careful in how we talk about that, and much more clarity would be very helpful.  If we’re confronted with another pause, we would be overly risk averse if we were to simply stand pat.  So I do, like President Rosengren, have sympathies with the way that policy is described in alternative A, where we get the benefits of mentioning that the funds rate could be held low into 2012.  We could very well end up there anyway; we might as well enjoy the benefit of that. In terms of the wording of the statement, I like explicit references to the labor market, our objective as stated, in terms of maximum employment.  It seems to me “loss of momentum” is fairly accurate, and I would prefer leaving that.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of the speaker expressing their thoughts and opinions on various aspects of monetary policy.


Passage number 166.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  I especially support the language we’re using to talk about inflation.  This plain-talk approach is more direct and more likely to be understood by a broader range of American citizens.  It should provide us with a flexible framework for being clear about what we think has actually happened to inflation and what we think will happen to inflation.  I think this will, in turn, encourage us to be more forthcoming about whether we’re satisfied with the inflation outlook, and if we’re not, what we intend to do about it.  All of these things should contribute to stabilizing inflation expectations.  I should note that such benefits are similar to those often ascribed to the adoption of an explicit numerical inflation objective, but I would caution against thinking of our new language as being a substitute for being explicit about our inflation objective.  So I agree with President Pianalto.  I think we ought to strive for greater clarity about our intentions.  That greater clarity would be achieved by taking the step of agreeing on an explicit inflation target, and what we’ve moved toward in the statement about inflation makes it even more important that we take that step.  I think we’re going to have a hard time talking within the new style of language about where inflation ought to go without agreeing among ourselves about where it ought to go. On the language changes that have been proposed so far, some strike me as very good.  I think the changes we made last time were in the nature of avoiding the use of latent variables, and I think of “momentum in the labor market” as one of those.  So I very much support President Plosser’s suggestion that we reword that sentence in terms of observables.  It is, after all, the paragraph that talks about the present and the past, and momentum certainly has a connotation of persistence that you would think doesn’t belong in the paragraph about backward-looking conditions.  Similarly, I support the suggestion of President Williams.  I think that “the current degree of monetary policy accommodation” is a latent variable—you know, I’m not against us using latent variables in our theoretical constructs in our conversation, but I think we ought to be really careful about foisting them on the public.  I don’t think there’s any loss of clarity to adopt his suggestion and just be clear that we’re going to keep the funds rate low and so on.  I think downside risks have increased, but in my mind, that consists of a greater probability that growth is going to be around 3 or 2½ percent for the next couple of years, and I haven’t heard a lot of compelling argumentation around the table that the risk of a downturn has increased a lot.  Now, I recognize what these two-state models give you:  The closer you slip down, the odds of a falldown are higher.  But I think of most of the increase in downside risks as the risk that economic growth is going to be lower on a sustained basis.  This is related to what President Kocherlakota was noting about potential.  One thing that we didn’t really talk about during the DSGE presentation yesterday was that all of those models have the property that potential is determined by stochastic trends.  That’s a technical term, but it means essentially that the trend rate of growth fluctuates over time, and so it can fall to 2 percent.  It is inconsistent with what President Plosser said about the possibility of permanent downward shifts in potential.  The idea that there is gigantic slack is based on essentially the statistical equivalent of this 3 percent line through 140 years of history.  The DSGE models have been formulated to fit the data, and they’ve found that to fit the data, you need to allow the trend and the level of potential to move around in this way.  For anyone who thinks slack is really large, it’s important to be careful about why you believe that.  Think carefully about the basis for that, against the alternatives that seem to fit the data pretty well.  That concludes my comments, and as I said, I support alternative B with those changes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker, I missed part of what you said.  How would a stochastic trend with white-noise innovations be consistent with a constant—basically, 3 percent growth over 140 years.  Wouldn’t you expect to see extended periods of higher economic growth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 167.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, if you look at the deviations from that trend in the postwar era, you see periods of 2, 3, or 4 percent that are away from trend for several years at a time.  So, yes, 140 years is really impressive, but you can be below that for quite a while and still get back to it in time to make the next 140 years at 3 percent.  That’s the point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sounds like it is co-integrated or something.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is acknowledging the impressive 140-year trend but also noting that deviations from that trend have occurred in the postwar era. However, they still believe that it is possible to return to the 3 percent trend in time for the next 140 years.


Passage number 168.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  The description of the economy appropriately acknowledges the fact that incoming data have been weak, and the labor market appears to have lost momentum.  My own view is that the risks to the outlook have now shifted to the downside as in alternative A, and I would be comfortable including the “downside risks” sentence from A in B as President Rosengren suggested, but I do not think it is absolutely necessary at this point to refer explicitly to downside risks in the statement.  Given my forecast for very moderate output growth over the next few years, a higher path for the unemployment rate, a path for inflation that remains under 2 percent for the entire forecast horizon, and inflation risks that are balanced, I remain very comfortable with our current reinvestment policy and with the “extended period” language.  Like the Tealbook and the markets, I have pushed out my expectation about how long we’re likely to keep our funds rate target near zero during this intermeeting period.  I still think our next move will be toward less, rather than additional, monetary accommodation, but I agree with Presidents Rosengren, Williams, and Evans that we need to do contingency planning, including a consideration of further steps that we might take should the outlook deteriorate more substantially. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B and am happy to wait and see how temporary the temporary factors end up being.  I would also support the change in the language suggested by President Williams.  I ran into the same conflict between the Tealbook box and this sentence.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You’re referring to the “maintain the current degree of monetary policy accommodation”. MS. DUKE.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. All the speakers express their support for alternative B and offer their own views and suggestions regarding the language and risks in the statement. However, there is no direct disagreement or argument between any of the speakers.


Passage number 169.
   VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  I support alternative B.  I think the economy is very likely to do somewhat better in the third quarter, as some of these transitory factors depressing activity fade.  I also think it’s not time to change policy, given that, it’s fair to say, the pass-through of the commodity price pressures into generalized prices of goods and services has been a little bit higher than what we were anticipating.  That said, just like we spent a lot of time doing contingency planning on what we’d do on the exit side, I think we need to do contingency planning on what we’d do should economic growth disappoint and inflation begin to decline again as some of these commodity price pressures fade.  Alternative A presents one option in terms of changing the communication by committing the “extended period” language to a particular length of time and adding a commitment to the balance sheet through the middle of 2012.  But I think there are a lot of other options that we need to consider, and I would strongly encourage taking that up. Second, I think in general the statement is a considerable improvement.  I still don’t think it’s quite where I’d like it to be, and I don’t want to make changes at this meeting, but I do think that it needs to evolve a little bit further over time.  Because what we want is paragraph 1 to be a report on what we’re seeing, it needs to be a statement of objective measures of what the data are.  This allows us, then, over time, to call it as we see it without a lot of consequences in terms of what this implies about what we are actually going to do.  And paragraph 2, then, would be about how the Committee views the outlook in light of this objective information.  We’re getting there, but we are not quite there yet.  And I think a number of other people have cited this “loss of momentum” as more of a subjective evaluation of the data rather than a statement of what the data are, and I have some sympathy with that.  Paragraph 2 also has a number of things that you might think should be in paragraph 1:  “The unemployment rate remains elevated” and “Inflation has moved up recently.”  Those are statements of facts, so you could argue that those really belong more in paragraph 1 than paragraph 2.  I wouldn’t suggest making any of these changes at this particular meeting.  Taking out “The unemployment rate remains elevated” at a time that the unemployment rate has been moving higher would be very odd, and the market would have trouble interpreting it.  But I think over time it would be really good to have paragraph 1 be the objective statement of facts and paragraph 2 be our interpretation of it.  I think we need to continue to work in that direction. Finally, let me just make a couple of comments about what other people have raised.  I certainly agree with President Rosengren today that, in your press conference, it is very important that the discussion about the exit strategy is stated in a way that does not imply an early exit.  I know you’ll do that fine.  It is really important that people don’t think that spending so much time on this contingency plan means that exit necessarily lies close at hand. With President Williams, I am sympathetic with his point about what the current degree of monetary policy accommodation means; that was consistent with some of the comments that I was making yesterday.  I don’t feel strongly about it, but if the group would want to remove that reference, I would be happy to take his amendment. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you very much.  I think there’s obviously a broad consensus on alternative B.  There were some interesting language suggestions, and I’d like to take up a couple of them.  First, there seemed to be a lot of support for President Williams’s suggestion to omit part of the first sentence in paragraph 3 and say, “To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate,” cut the end of the sentence and go to, “The Committee will keep the target range for the federal funds rate.”  I think that’s fine.  It’s not important, but I think you should be aware that in the April statement, we used that same phraseology to introduce the securities purchases.  So it is a little bit of a swap-around, but I don’t really have any real problem with that.  Is there anyone who has concerns about dropping that language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 170.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I intended for it to be “The Committee decided today to keep.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  “Decided today to” and then restart with the word “keep” in the next part of the sentence. Next, there was the issue that President Plosser and a number of others have raised about the “momentum” sentence in the first paragraph.  Charlie, could you give us again your proposed language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Williams, is simply providing clarification and discussing a proposed change in language.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 171.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Let me get the right piece of paper here.  I suggested we could simply say, “Recent labor market indicators have been somewhat weaker than anticipated.”  And that follows from the previous sentence that says that the economy has been a little weaker than we anticipated. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  “Recent labor market indicators have been weaker than anticipated.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser suggests that the recent labor market indicators have been "somewhat weaker than anticipated," while someone else appears to disagree by stating that the labor market indicators have been "weaker than anticipated."


Passage number 172.
” MR. PLOSSER.  I think that’s in keeping with President Dudley’s suggestion.  We should just state what the facts are. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, it does keep with that.  Let me raise one concern.  I am not opposed to this, but I just want to point out that what we’re making a backward-looking statement that both economic growth and labor market have been weaker than expected, and we then go on to say that the slower pace of recovery reflects in part, importantly, factors that are likely to be temporary.  And then we use language that we have used previously.  So I think your suggestion might be okay, but one thing I am a little bit concerned about is that the statement will be read as saying, “Fed Thinks Slowdown Temporary.”  That’s the headline.  That seems a little more optimistic than some of us were.  “Loss of momentum,” as you said, suggests a somewhat longer-lasting problem.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is agreement and no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses a concern but also acknowledges that the suggestion might be okay.


Passage number 173.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman, that goes, though, to what’s in paragraph 2, which is where the expectation is stated.  I didn’t note this a moment ago, but, I have to say, I was struck by the fact that the “expectation” sentence was identical in alternatives A, B, and C.  That is, “expects the pace of recovery to pick up over coming quarters and the unemployment rate to resume its gradual decline.”  I guess what I’m saying is that I understand what you were saying a moment ago, but isn’t it, in fact, what the Committee expects.  That is, when you said you think it’s going to be temporary, that’s what the statement in paragraph 2 is basically saying.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Actually, one possibility is to use language similar to what I had in my speech in Atlanta where I said, “pick up somewhat.”  Maybe that would be—can we do that.  I’m trying to avoid giving the sense that we think this is entirely temporary.  Yet another approach is President Rosengren’s suggestion about adding a sentence in paragraph 2 saying that the Committee perceives that downside risks to economic growth have increased.  I would note that adding that would be a very significant change, because would we then also have an inflation risk component.  We haven’t been using the “risk” language.  I’m not saying we shouldn’t do it, but I’m a little afraid of doing it on the fly.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is a discussion of different suggestions and concerns about the wording of a statement.


Passage number 174.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Well, I was just going to comment, because in the last two meetings, we have talked about exactly this.  When the balance of risk actually rose for both inflation and output at the last meeting, we resisted reporting that in the statement.  I am all in favor of talking about whether there is a way to systematically communicate this, either through the SEP or what we publish, but like you, I would be reluctant  to do it on the fly here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 175.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think risk is a complicated concept.  I think it is a good idea to include language about it, but I think we should do it contemporaneously with actually releasing our projections about risk— something down the road. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 176.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  I’m less concerned about alternative B creating the wrong impression because you are going to give a press conference, and you are going to have the projections.  And the projections, I think, in some ways will speak for themselves. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think that is an important point.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's opinion about being less concerned about a certain situation and explaining their reasoning.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 177.
 MR. FISHER.  I do want to keep “employment” in there.  I mean, after all, we have a dual mandate.  I do also agree we should get rid of “loss of momentum.”  Maybe you could use Charlie’s alternative language or you could just say that “The economic recovery and employment are continuing at a moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than we had expected,” so you could work the word “employment” in there.  I don’t want to eliminate it entirely in the first paragraph.  It’s improving much more slowly than we had expected, but it’s still continuing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher wants to keep the word "employment" in the first paragraph, while President Lacker seems to have a different opinion.


Passage number 178.
  MR. LACKER.  You brought up risks, and I agree with President Kocherlakota.  I think introducing downside risk is going to be taken as a bigger worry than I think we collectively have about the possibility of a contraction in economic activity. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  I guess my proposal would be to replace the “momentum” sentence with Charlie’s language:  “Also, recent labor market indicators have been weaker than anticipated.”   I also think that the Vice Chairman’s point is important, that news coverage will also have to include coverage of the changes in the projections, which will make very explicit the fact that we expect economic growth to be slower going forward.  I didn’t hear a lot of support for “pick up somewhat,” unless I’m mistaken.  Let’s see.  Charlie also wanted to say that “Inflation expectations have remained close to historical norms.”  I think we’ve said they’ve been stable for a really long time, and I don’t know how people would interpret that change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 179.
 MR. PLOSSER.  One of the things that we want to think about is, when we talk about expectations, it is fairly vague.  It’s not well defined in some sense, and different people look at different things.  Going forward, we might think about how to structure that with a little more precision, if we can, about what it is we are actually referring to.  That’s just a suggestion to think about improving that language. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It is a latent variable that we’re referring to.  But there are a number of those measures that we use.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is making a suggestion to think about improving the language used to discuss expectations, specifically suggesting that it could be more precise and well-defined.


Passage number 180.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Janet.  I think that you and the subcommittee have done a terrific job of walking down the middle, as Richard might have said, between excessive generalities and excessive specificity.  I do have one question, which relates to a change that you made in response to a legitimate concern that somebody had, and the question is on paragraph 7 of the participants’ policy.  This pertains to the last sentence of paragraph 7.  The original language, I believe, read, “During each blackout period, participants refrain from communicating with members of the public about macroeconomic developments or monetary policy issues.”  I believe that the legitimate concern that was raised was that it sounded as though you couldn’t ask somebody else what they thought was going on in the macroeconomy, which didn’t seem part of what we had in mind.  The way it’s been rephrased, though, now says, “participants refrain from expressing their views … in meetings or conversations with members of the public,” and there’s at least a little bit of ambiguity there, I think, suggesting that it is the forum which is dispositive as opposed to the act of communicating the views to the public.  I wonder if you’d clarify that a bit. MS. YELLEN.  Thanks for the question.  I’d be happy to clarify and welcome other members of the subcommittee to weigh in on this.  There was no intention in this revision to delineate anything about acceptable or unacceptable forums or forms of communication.  So we used the phrase “meetings or conversations” as a synonym for the word “contacts,” which appears in a number of other places in the policy, and so I translate “meetings or conversations” as simply broadly referring to all contacts.  We use the term “members of the public.”  And that’s a phrase that appears repeatedly in the policy and is meant to refer to all members of the public and, for example, would include the press.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The question asked by Mr. Tarullo is seeking clarification on a change made in response to a concern. Ms. Yellen then provides an explanation without any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 181.
 MR. FISHER.  Does that answer your question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking if the answer provided satisfies the question.


Passage number 182.
 MR. TARULLO.  I think so.  In essence, the subcommittee’s intention is that this means participants refrain from, if I can put it this way, communicating their views about macroeconomic developments or monetary policy issues to members of the public. MS. YELLEN.  Correct.  Jim.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. MR. TARULLO and MS. YELLEN both agree on the subcommittee's intention and understanding of refraining from communicating views about macroeconomic developments or monetary policy issues to the public.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 183.
 MR. BULLARD.  I also appreciate the work of the subcommittee on what I think is a very difficult topic.  I have some concerns that I’ve discussed previously with Governor Yellen and President Fisher.  I think there are a lot of gray areas here, and I think this cannot really be helped when you write down a document like this, but it does set up some problems of interpretation, in my view, especially for our staff.  I’m concerned that this document could be over-interpreted far beyond what is intended by this communications subcommittee, and that this could inhibit what we now consider normal staff activities.  This type of over-interpretation, just based on a reading of a vague document, can often happen in a large bureaucracy like the Fed. I’ll give you one example.  The New York Fed has recently put out an innovative approach to communication, the Liberty Street Blog.  A very good researcher in the System, Gauti Eggertsson, put something on the blog based on his research in which he argues that the current FOMC will not repeat the mistake of 1937 for reasons that he exposits on the blog.  I would consider something like this a very normal staff activity.  In fact, I would consider robust and active debate of this type as an important contribution to high-quality monetary policy.  But when I read the document here, it says, “Staff should refrain from publicly expressing their own personal views regarding prospective monetary policy decisions,” which could put an end to that kind of a blog.  So a literal reading of the staff portion of the memo might circumscribe Gauti’s behavior.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard expresses concerns that the document could be over-interpreted and inhibit normal staff activities. He gives an example of how the document could potentially limit the behavior of a staff member who contributes to the Liberty Street Blog.


Passage number 184.
 MR. TARULLO.  Jim, could I ask you to clarify.  You said the blog said that we will not make that mistake.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The person is simply asking for clarification.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 185.
 MR. BULLARD.  He thinks we won’t because he thinks we’ll look through commodity prices and we won’t make that mistake.   If this interpretation takes hold, I would view that as a very negative development in the Federal Reserve System.  It would be the opposite of the open debate that I think is most appropriate and helpful for monetary policy.  Unless you think that it can’t happen here, I will remind you that there was a time in the Federal Reserve System when staff behavior was tightly circumscribed and people were, in fact, fired inside the System for their views, and it was a serious situation.  That has a chilling effect on the staff.  The staff does not want to work on pressing issues that face this Committee for fear of running afoul of vague rules.  They can decide to do other activities, work on something else, and not address the key concerns of the Committee.  So my suggestion would be to reconsider the staff portion of this memo.  I appreciate that Governor Yellen has suggested that we ask the research directors to look at it and see what they think, but I want it to be on the record here that if that’s the direction the interpretation goes, I would be very much opposed to that. My second concern is that the off-the-record interview is not addressed in this document.  To the extent that we have noncollegial behavior on this Committee—and I don’t think that we really do to a large extent, but to the extent that we do—it comes through the off-the-record interview.  And what are the rules about those interviews.  Do all of these rules apply to those situations. My third concern, which is far more minor, is that the idea of a blackout only applies to speeches or appearances that concern monetary policy or macroeconomic developments.  But the current blackout, the one that we’re in right now, if I count it correctly, had four appearances, one op-ed, and three appearances by FOMC members.  All of them were excellent.  They were not policy related, but I think it’s a very slippery slope to start having lots of presentations, especially when you have any kind of Q&A or anything during a blackout period.  Even if you say, “I’m not going to talk about policy issues,” it can be, “Okay, I’m not talking directly about monetary policy, but I’m going to go to a conference on commodity prices, and I’m going to characterize my views about commodity prices.”  And then you say, “Well, that was not a monetary policy discussion.  It was a commodity prices discussion,” but yes, it impinges on what our views on policy would be.  So I think it’s a very slippery slope to get into the business of doing a lot of presentations and appearances during a blackout in which you’re going to define what macroeconomics is and what macroeconomics is not.  The system could break down if we allowed too much of that to go on.  But that’s more of a minor concern.  I think most of the things that we do are very reasonable on the blackout.  For all of us, it gives us something of a respite—that is, a reason that you can turn down invitations because you’re going to go on a blackout.  I think it generally works pretty well, but I think that part is a slippery slope. My main concern, then, is the impact of the vague document on the staff and the possible chilling effect of open discussion within the Federal Reserve System.  Second, I do have concerns about the off-the-record interview because it is not addressed in this document.  And third, the application of the blackout.  Thank you. MS. YELLEN.  Maybe I’ll just respond briefly on the first two.  With respect to the potential chilling effect on staff research, that’s certainly something that the subcommittee has absolutely no intention of having occur, and because we all realize that these are principles, we’ve only given a few examples of how these principles would apply in areas that are either clearly black or clearly white, and we recognize that there are gray areas.  I think those types of examples would be very helpful, especially for staff.  That’s why I particularly would urge the research directors to sit down and to discuss concrete examples.  I don’t know the Eggertsson paper, so I can’t weigh in on the particulars there, but we have thought about whether or not this principle applying to staff would restrict legitimate and valuable research, and as we’ve thought about it, I don’t see that it will.  What the principle is saying is that the official staff—that is, officers—should not express normative views about forthcoming policy decisions.  That doesn’t mean you can’t do a research paper and say a particular consideration, like the impact of energy prices on future core inflation, would suggest a particular policy approach.  What’s to be avoided is saying, “In my personal view, I believe that in an upcoming meeting, the right thing for the FOMC to do is X.”  There could be a consideration you’ve discussed in a research paper that points in a particular direction.  You articulate that, but as long as you recognize that, for example, when the FOMC makes decisions, there are a lot of different things on the table at the same time.  That might be one thing that would be an important consideration, but this Committee might consider other things at the same time.  So it’s to say, at the next meeting or in forthcoming meetings, official staff shouldn’t be saying, “The right thing for the FOMC to do at the next meeting is X,” and the other thing that official staff should not do is speculate, “I think the Committee at the next meeting will do X.”  It’s intended to be rather limited, and I think it’s very important for the research directors to consider concrete examples of the kinds of things staff really do face, and to think things through.  And if the way this policy is worded is inadvertently restrictive of legitimate research activities and presentations, please come back and we will reconsider the language. On the off-the-record interviews, our subcommittee discussed this issue.  We recognized there were strong feelings around the table, and I think it fell in an area where we cannot get agreement, and we simply omitted it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In the passage, Mr. Bullard expresses disagreement with the interpretation that commodity prices should not be considered when making decisions. He argues that this would limit open debate and have a negative impact on the Federal Reserve System. He also raises concerns about the off-the-record interview and the application of the blackout period. Ms. Yellen responds to these concerns, but does not indicate agreement or disagreement with Mr. Bullard's views.


Passage number 186.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I want to add my thanks to the members of the subcommittee for their work on external communications.  I agree they managed to strike a reasonable balance between the various aims of our external communication.  These are difficult issues.  I’m going to pick up on the staff issue, and I appreciate, Governor Yellen, this idea of getting feedback and seeing how this actually works.  I’m going to mention one potential challenge and, I hope, a constructive idea about how research can be done within the confines of this rule.  The guidelines—and this is a separate issue than President Bullard mentioned—restrict staff economists from communicating with outside researchers, including academics, about any analysis, methods, or models currently in use but not available to the public.  Now, having been a staff economist in the Fed System for 16 years, I can personally attest to the value of such consultations with outside scholars.  Outside experts challenge our assumptions, they challenge our methods, and they provide a check on group-think.  To take one example, the FRB/US model, which I worked on for many years, benefited from the critical scrutiny and suggestions that we received from outside experts.  Even models regularly in use need further, even continual refinement, and the same applies to models used for forecasting and the DSGE models we talked about yesterday. I understand the concerns that led to the new restrictions on the staff interactions with outside experts, but given that these interactions improve the quality of staff analysis and, importantly, ultimately improve our policy decisions, we need to ensure that the staff continues to receive ongoing feedback from outside experts within the confines of the new rules.  Indeed, staff may need more public outlets for current analysis, such as economic letters and blogs, so that they are free to discuss their methods with outside experts.  These public outlets and the dialogue with outside experts that they foster contribute to greater transparency and accountability for staff research and analysis.  I’m speaking from our experience in San Francisco with our Economic Letters, and our FedViews—but many of the Federal Reserve Banks have done the same thing.  Putting our current analysis and our policy-oriented or current research out publicly frees you up to talk to any outside experts about the models you’re using and the results you’ve got, and it allows you to have those very fruitful conversations.  But if you don’t have those outlets available—and I’m not thinking about academic research right now—then you couldn’t talk to the outside experts about what you are using in your policy analysis.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing agreement and appreciation for the work of the subcommittee and discussing potential challenges and ideas related to research and external communication.


Passage number 187.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  This is meant to be a guideline, and it’s not a substitute for common sense, so I think we have to remember that common sense needs to play a significant role in how we apply this.  The goal is not to stifle research, but if the policy conclusion from research is, “At the next meeting, they should raise rates,” well, that probably is going to be a problem.  But if instead they say, “The path implied by the model is this,” that probably is not going to be a problem.  I think the research directors can spend some time thinking about some examples that apply common sense in a reasonable way, but I think part of it is tied to the specificity.  There is a risk to the organization if anyone in the organization, at least from the perception of the press, can speak broadly for the organization.  There is reputational risk that this is partly trying to address.  The San Francisco commentary series is a great place to put comments on how we’re thinking about models.  But if instead of putting it on the commentary series, one person who sells his own forecast to hedge funds gets the idea that “This is the way the San Francisco Fed and the Fed in general is thinking about things,” and it’s not common knowledge, and he goes and sells that knowledge to a hedge fund, that is a reputational risk to the organization.  The solution to that is having satisfactory outlets so that the public at large can see these types of things rather than giving commercial advantage to any one person or organization.  Again, I think we can come up with some commonsense solutions that reduce our risk as an organization that we look like we’re giving preferential treatment at times to individuals or organizations.  That’s more what it’s designed to do than in any way stifle the ability of the research community to do good research and to publicly explain it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is primarily discussing the need for common sense and the potential risks and solutions related to the communication and dissemination of research within an organization.


Passage number 188.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  We are in complete agreement.  My point was, to the extent that parts of the Federal Reserve System don’t have outlets for your thinking on current analysis, modeling, and research, then it is going to be a clampdown on the ability to talk to outside experts.  In some sense, I think we should have more transparency about what we’re doing, and we should make it publicly available like we’ve done in San Francisco and like many other Banks have done for a long time.  That way I can go talk, for example, to Jim Stock about the inflation model that I’ve been working on because my model is out there in the public and widely available.  I think we’re agreeing, but I don’t think the Board, for example, just to be specific, has an economic letter or something like that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker states that they are in complete agreement and proceeds to explain their point further.


Passage number 189.
 MR. FISHER.  If I can add to Janet’s and Eric’s point—and Eric nailed it, saying it’s an appeal to common sense—what we don’t want is for people to speculate or telescope policy decisions either publicly or, very importantly, in a way that someone can profit.  That’s really what this comes down to.  We’re not trying to suppress thought or research that informs us.  It’s really a matter of—particularly on the staff level but also among principals—telescoping or speculating about where we’re likely to end up after a meeting, as we approach that meeting, or what the next steps may be or the intention of the Committee is in terms of the next steps it’s going to take.  I come back to Eric’s key point and Janet’s, these are commonsense guidelines, and I think that’s the spirit in which we crafted them, and it’s the spirit with which they should be observed. MS. YELLEN.  Jeff.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers all seem to be in agreement about the importance of not speculating or profiting from policy decisions and the need for guidelines on how to discuss future steps in meetings.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 190.
 MR. LACKER.  I second the motion on the floor. MS. DUKE.  I would like to go back to the comment on the staff policy and say that I think there was one line that we meant to draw, and that was having a Fed official speculate publicly about what this Committee might do, might not do, should do, should not do—whether it’s in a paper, it’s in a speech, it’s in a blog, wherever it is, I think that’s a problem.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. Ms. Duke is expressing disagreement with the idea of a Fed official speculating publicly about the Committee's actions. This can be seen from the phrase "I think that's a problem."


Passage number 191.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  You write a paper, and the paper says what the Committee should do is switch to monetary targeting.  You’re saying, “I did some research, and my research says you should switch to monetary targeting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is summarizing someone's perspective without expressing his own opinion.


Passage number 192.
” MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The given passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It only provides a name, "Mr. Kocherlakota," without any accompanying information or context for evaluation.


Passage number 193.
  I think that it’s different if you say, “The implications of the analysis in this paper are that the Committee should—” MR. EVANS.  It’s a framework, not an action.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply clarifying or offering their perspective on the statement made by MR. EVANS.


Passage number 194.
 MR. BULLARD.  It’s vague. MS. YELLEN.  Well, the research directors can try to take an example like that and indicate what they think is appropriate, and I think they’re going to decide that that’s perfectly fine.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage shows agreement between Mr. Bullard and Ms. Yellen. Mr. Bullard describes something as vague, and Ms. Yellen agrees with him and suggests a solution.


Passage number 195.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  I guess I think we all basically have an understanding of what we have in mind here, and I do think there’s a bit of a risk of over-interpretation in the future, you could say.  And then you’re working as a staff person, and you’re not sure how the rules are going to come down.  All of a sudden somebody is really mad at you because you did something, and you thought that this was okay.  That’s the danger of having a vague set of rules at the top.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a viewpoint about the potential risks and challenges of having vague rules.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 196.
 MR. TARULLO.  Except, Jim, they have the opportunity to show it to their research director before they publish it and to get a sense if there’s a problem with it, and then that can be worked out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. The speaker (Mr. Tarullo) is arguing that researchers have the opportunity to seek feedback and address any potential issues in their work before publishing, while the other person (Jim) seems to hold a different opinion or might not agree with this process.


Passage number 197.
 MR. BULLARD.  Indeed they do, and there was a time when all papers in the System were vetted through channels, and we spent a lot of time reading each other’s’ papers and vetting them and circling sentences that we thought were referring to the dollar and all kinds of stuff like that.  And we got rid of that because it was unproductive, it was useless, and it didn’t promote the open discussion that I think we’ve achieved.  My only point is that I’d be loath to turn that tide back and go in a different direction.  And I appreciate what’s being done here.  I think there is understanding around the table.  I wanted to have this discussion so that we don’t go in the wrong direction.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing his support for the current open discussion and the direction in which they are going. He states that they have moved away from a previous practice of vetting papers through channels and circling sentences, which he found unproductive. He appreciates what is being done and wants to ensure they don't go in the wrong direction.


Passage number 198.
 MR. TARULLO.  Let me draw a distinction, if I could, between, on the one hand, having to submit something for prior restraint, and, on the other hand, allowing a staff person to, on his or her own initiative if he or she is worried about potential consequences, show it to a research director.  I think there’s a rather fundamental difference between those two.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Tarullo is simply explaining a distinction between two different actions without expressing any disagreement or conflict.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 199.
 MR. HOENIG.  Just a point of clarification based on this conversation.  These are identified as “policies,” and, Eric, you said “guidelines,” and, Richard, you said “guidelines.”  It’s subtle, but are these guidelines, or is this a policy.  MS. YELLEN.  It’s a formal policy, and we have moved it for adoption.  I’m going to ask for the Committee’s approval of this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Hoenig questions whether the identified documents are policies or guidelines, while Ms. Yellen asserts that they are formal policies.


Passage number 200.
 MR. HOENIG.  Right.  And just to clarify it, “policy” is a stronger statement than “guidelines.” MS. YELLEN.  It’s not informal.  It’s not voluntary. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Could I comment on this debate.  The Atlanta blog, I think, is a really good example of policy-relevant, topical commentary, which does a really nice job of avoiding the problem.  The way I would express the problem would be that we don’t want a situation in which staff are saying things that move markets or confuse the public about what the current near-term policies are likely to be.  Even with the Eggertsson paper, I think the research is very interesting and very relevant.  I’m not sure that I like very much the statement that we will not do this, because it does have implications.  I have had some conversations recently in other contexts about policies toward research publications, and my very strong view is that it’s best to have a policy that Fed staffers are allowed to do research on whatever topic they’d like, and it doesn’t represent an official position of the Board.  Once you censor one paper and then you don’t censor another, people are going to assume that there’s some implicit imprimatur being given to the paper that is not censored.  I don’t think this policy is a restriction that will stifle serious research.  I would add also, finally, that these policies are supposed to be implemented at the Reserve Banks by the president of each Reserve Bank.  So each of you will have opportunities to make these judgments and make sure that within your Bank the appropriate lines are drawn. We have a motion, and we have a second.  We’re going to take one vote on these two policies.  My understanding is, as a procedural matter, that this is a vote of the Committee—that is, the same people who vote on the current action and the statement.  That being said, I think it would be very interesting and useful to know what everybody around the table thinks, so I’m going to ask for a vote of all 17 folks around the table.  We will probably report, I assume, the FOMC’s official vote but also indicate in the minutes the views of the broader group, if that’s okay.  We have a motion, and it is has been seconded.  How many are in favor, please.  I think we have a unanimous vote.  Thank you.  And thank you, Janet. We have a couple of minutes, so maybe we could take a quick look at that updated version of the exit strategy that we sent out yesterday.8  And I don’t intend to get into any extended discussion here.  This is the same as what you got yesterday, so let me go through this quickly.  The changes that have been made—first, in paragraph 3, instead of saying “relatively soon thereafter,” we say “sometime thereafter,” to loosen the temporal connection between ceasing reinvesting and modifying the policy guidance.  Similarly, in paragraph 5, we have struck the phrase “probably within a few months.”  And, again, the purpose of this is to give us  8 The revised materials for the discussion of exit strategy principles are appended to this transcript (appendix 8). some flexibility in terms of the speed at which the sequence is executed, because, arguably, it could depend on economic conditions.  We added the phrase “up or down,” suggested by President Plosser.  We made the change suggested by the Vice Chairman about reducing the portfolio to “the smallest levels that would be consistent with the efficient implementation of monetary policy.” Now, the one place where I thought there was not necessarily a clear preference in terms of giving times had to do with the horizon over which we eliminate our holdings of agency securities.  And, indeed, we have, I think, put in the minutes that the majority of the Committee participants were in favor of something approximating five years.  Let me try to get your sense of this.  First of all, we’ve added the option of selling agency securities over three to five years as opposed to four to five.  One of the memos we circulated made the point that if we sell agency securities more quickly it doesn’t have that much effect on the overall size of the portfolio.  So even if we sell the agency securities in three years, it would still take two to three years to normalize the size of the overall portfolio.  If we sell them in five years, it only adds about six months, or something on that order, to the time needed to get to the $25 billion of excess reserves associated with our pre-crisis policies.  This is just for straw vote purposes—do we want to ask the question about three to five years versus four to five.  Then I’d be interested to get a sense of the Committee’s preference about simply leaving out the time frame.  I gather that was something about which there were some strong objections.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 201.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have a very quick question of what we mean.  When we say that “The pace of sales is expected to be aimed at eliminating our holdings … over a period of three to five years,” do we mean from today, or from when the sales start. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  When we start sales.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification on the timing of sales.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 202.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So do we need to clarify that.  Because one could read that either way.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I see.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The statement "So do we need to clarify that" suggests that there is a need for clarification, indicating disagreement or uncertainty about the previous statement. Additionally, the phrase "Because one could read that either way" further supports the presence of disagreement by highlighting the different interpretations of the statement.


Passage number 203.
  Why don’t we say, “Once sales begin,” something like that, “the pace of sales is expected”— VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  I think you need to clarify it, so people don’t misinterpret that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is proposing a modification to a statement in order to provide clarity and prevent misinterpretation.


Passage number 204.
 MR. LACKER.  Wait.  That means the clock starts, and it could take five years after that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement made by Mr. Lacker, indicating a timeline for an event to occur.


Passage number 205.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That’s why we’re including “three,” because if you start later you’ll have a smaller portfolio, so you’d want to start faster.  I wanted to clarify that, so that there is no ambiguity. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You can’t make assumptions today about when we’ll be initiating sales.  So why don’t we say something like “Once sales begin, the pace of sales.” Does anybody want to speak on the issue of “three to five” versus “four to five”.  Let’s do it sequentially.  Once we have a determination on that, I will open the floor for those who might want to just not use numbers there at all.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification and suggestions from others.


Passage number 206.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  The whole issue of “three to five” is that you just don’t know when you’re going to start.  And since you don’t know when you’re going to start, you don’t know how big the agency MBS portfolio is going to be at the starting point.  You can imagine a situation where we start very late, and we don’t have a very big agency MBS portfolio, so we want to make it a short period of time of sales.  Or we start very early and we have a much bigger portfolio—that’s the logic of having a little bit more range there. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Even though we have a reinvestment policy, we’re reinvesting in Treasuries, and the MBS are running off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the uncertain nature of the "three to five" issue and the logic behind having a range in terms of portfolio size and duration of sales.


Passage number 207.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And they’re running off at what rate, roughly, Brian.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 208.
 MR. SACK.  Over the next several years, probably about $100 billion a year.  My concern about saying “three to five” is that while you may be interpreting “three” as the outcome if the sales begin late, the market wouldn’t know that from this.  So the market could make the inference that the Committee would consider selling at a pace of $300 billion a year.  We currently have $950 billion or so of agency MBS.  By saying “three to five,” it at least opens the door for interpretation that the sales would actually be at a faster pace than suggested by previous communications.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 209.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Okay.  That’s a good point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think we should give at least some consideration to the other memo that Brian and colleagues circulated that suggested that the net supply of MBS to the market was actually going to be pretty high over the next few years because of the portfolio of the GSEs being run down, because of Treasury sales, and some other factors.  That would argue for the “four to five,” I think.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple acknowledgement of a good point and a consideration of another memo's suggestion.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 210.
 MR. FISHER.  I don’t want to jump ahead here, but this is why I’m chary about putting specific time references in here.  The point is, I can see both sides of the argument.  We’re going to do it in a way that is designed to minimize the extent to which we might affect the allocation of credit across sectors of the economy.  The reason we put a time frame in there—and, I would argue, one of the arguments for that—would be just to make sure it’s clear this isn’t going to go on forever.  Forgive me, Mr. Hoenig, but I have a feeling that’s your driving impetus here.  But, you know, this is a debate—“four to five,” “three to five.”  First, we don’t know when the sales are going to start.  And, second, we are going to do it in a way that minimizes its impact.  That’s what our expectations are.  So I could argue both sides.  I agree with Tom’s concern, I don’t want this to be pushed off indefinitely.  But I think we are boxing ourselves in again by having a specific time frame here.  I don’t think we need to do that right now. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you have a language suggestion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher expresses hesitation about including specific time references, while acknowledging that he understands both sides of the argument. He believes that putting a time frame limits their options and argues against it.


Passage number 211.
 MR. FISHER.  My preference, trusting that this thing will not go on forever and that the Manager will not allow it to exist forever, would simply be to say that, “Once sales begin, the pace of sales are expected to be aimed at eliminating our holdings of agency securities over a period designed to minimize the extent to which the SOMA portfolio might affect the allocation of credit across sectors of the economy.”  We could break it up like we did that last sentence, but the point is to take out the specific time reference of three or four to five years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 212.
 MR. TARULLO.  So what happens in the next sentence, Richard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage only states that Mr. Tarullo is asking a question, without any indication of disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 213.
 MR. FISHER.  I would do the same.  The problem is putting a specific time frame in there.  We can argue how many angels dance on the head of a pin.  Is it “two to three” or “three to five”.  But I’m also sympathetic to Tom’s argument here, in that we want to at least have an outer limit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents two different perspectives on the issue of establishing a specific time frame. Mr. Fisher acknowledges the potential for disagreement by comparing it to a debate about the number of angels on the head of a pin. However, he also expresses sympathy for Tom's argument, suggesting that there should be an outer limit.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 214.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Just a suggestion.  I haven’t got the right wording here, but we could say, “We will eliminate our holdings of agency securities as promptly as possible while minimizing the effect on”—saying we want to get these off our portfolio.  We don’t want to disrupt the market, but we are going to do it as promptly as we can without disrupting the market, some phrase like that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser is suggesting a course of action (eliminating holdings of agency securities promptly) that might disrupt the market, while also trying to minimize the disruptive effect. This implies a difference in opinion or approach on how to handle the situation.


Passage number 215.
  VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  We have to get the market disruption idea in there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states that the "market disruption idea" needs to be included, without indicating any opposition or contrary opinions.


Passage number 216.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any statement or indication of disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 217.
  So it’s done quickly, but it’s conditional on— MR. FISHER.  The one thing we agree on is, we don’t want to disrupt the marketplace.  What we don’t agree on is the time frame. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s true.  There would also be some consideration, obviously, of principle number one, that we have to do it consistent with our policy objectives as well.  Let me take a few more.  I have a feeling we’re not going to resolve this today.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher and President Hoenig do not agree on the time frame for the action being discussed.


Passage number 218.
 MR. HOENIG.  Just quickly, I put time frames in there because everyone knows we’re going to do this in some systematic fashion.  We don’t even have to talk about that.  We don’t even have to put this thing out.  This gives them a concept of what we are thinking about.  And paragraph 7 says, “Of course, we’ll make adjustments if we need to, but here’s what you can look to.”  And it gives them I think more information rather than less.  Keeping it too general is just too general.  It doesn’t provide anything useful.  So that’s why I like “three to five,” and “two to three.”  Let people know, and then we’ll see what happens, obviously. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's preference for providing specific time frames rather than keeping the information too general.


Passage number 219.
 MR. LACKER.  The purpose of the clause in the first sentence of paragraph 6—about minimizing the extent to which the SOMA portfolio might affect the allocation of credit across sectors—is to announce our purpose for getting out of agencies, right.  It’s not about this disruption. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, is providing an explanation and seeking confirmation of his understanding.


Passage number 220.
 MR. LACKER.  Now, you all know I have asked our Manager many times over many meetings about this notion of disrupting the market.  I agree with President Hoenig, it’s unlikely that market participants are going to view us as slacking from our solicitousness about disruption to the market.  It’s kind of a squishy topic, though, and I’ve never really gotten a lot of specifics about what those disruptions mean.  And I was kind of confused by the memo we got about this, because it sounded a lot like the flow effect, which I thought we had cast aside over the course of the first purchase program in preparation for the second.  So I’m still confused about what these disruptions mean.  We’ve done a lot of analysis.  We’ve seen a lot of scenarios.  And in almost all of them, we do it in something like this time period of three to five years.  The staff very kindly threw in some more-rapid scenarios to make me feel good.  I wasn’t able to persuade the rest of you that that was the best policy, so let’s put down what we know.  There are all sorts of things where you could preserve some optionality and degrees of freedom by holding back information.  But this is about clarity.  It’s about helping the markets have some degree of predictability about what we do.  And I’d say, go ahead and put the number in. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  For what it’s worth, both of our previous communications and most of our scenario analysis is four to five years.  We haven’t worked with a three-year variant very often.  So if you are willing to accept that, I think that was the original version.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It is mostly a statement of confusion and a request for clarification.


Passage number 221.
  MR. LACKER.  Either one would be fine with me.  I think President Dudley is persuasive.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker acknowledges that either option is acceptable and expresses agreement with President Dudley's persuasive abilities.


Passage number 222.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I can live with four to five years.  I just wanted to point out that if we did exit late, we might decide to go faster.  But there’s enough wiggle room here that I don’t think that people are going to produce this five years from now and say, “Well, you said.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the possibility of exiting late and the uncertainty regarding the exact timeframe.


Passage number 223.
 MR. FISHER.  “Three to five” encompasses “four to five,” so, therefore, I would vote for “three to five.”  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The laughter at the end indicates a light-hearted tone, suggesting that President Kocherlakota and Mr. Fisher may be sharing a joke or finding humor in the situation.


Passage number 224.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Well, because everyone is converging, I was going to suggest saying “within five years.”  But if everyone is happy with where they are, then I’m happy with that, too. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  I would say, I prefer to have no numbers, but if it meant I didn’t have to discuss this again, I would take anything.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. Both Mr. Kocherlakota and Ms. Duke express their agreement and willingness to compromise with each other's suggestions. There is no contention or disagreement present in this passage.


Passage number 225.
  [Laughter] MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That shows a distressing lack of stamina.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  This is how labor negotiations always go—wear them down.  [Laughter]  Okay.  So let’s just get a sense here.  First of all, put aside completely for a moment the issue of three to five or four to five years—is everybody okay with the other changes that were made.  Is there anyone who has strong objections to any of the other changes.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Just on the “up or down.”  I don’t think it’s hugely problematic, but anytime we talk about adjustments, we don’t say “up or down.”  Just here we talk about adjustments “up or down.”  So the question is:  When we are silent as to “up or down,” does it suggest only one way.  Are we leaning a certain way on this particular adjustment in number 5 because we’ve indicated “up or down,” whereas in number 4, we have referred to adjustments without saying “up or down”. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think in this case you could imagine circumstances in which it could go either way.  In other cases, we’ve been leaning more in one direction than the other.  I don’t think this is a critical issue, but I take your point.  Anyone else.  [No response]  All right.  I’m going to ask, how many prefer “three to five,” how many prefer “four to five,” and how many prefer no numbers.  And then, based on that, we’re going to come back to you to try to develop some kind of consensus based on some more staff work, if that’s okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, there is no contention or disagreement. The conversation is light-hearted with the use of laughter, and Governor Raskin raises a minor concern but acknowledges that it is not a critical issue. There is no indication of strong objection or disagreement among the participants.


Passage number 226.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Is the idea to include it in the minutes, if we can get to closure. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, if we can get to closure.  Yes.  Even if we can get to closure after the meeting, that would be good.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The individuals in the conversation seem to be in agreement about the idea to include something in the minutes if they are able to reach closure on the topic.


Passage number 227.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman, can I ask a question, though.  Picking up on Betsy’s theme, to the degree that the inclusion of a number is very important to a couple of people and others of us are somewhat indifferent, or at least don’t feel strongly about it, it would be important to know whether people might vote “no” if there were no number in there. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  Is there anyone who strongly objects to the inclusion of any numbers.  President Fisher, I think you have noted your concerns.  Okay, good.  Now, there is a legitimate question of “three to five” and “four to five.”  How many are in favor of “three to five”.  Don’t raise your hand too high, Jeff.  [Laughter]  [Show of hands]  Let’s see—three to five” it is.  So we have a document that everybody is at least willing to buy into.  Is everybody okay with posting this in the minutes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is disagreement or contention in this passage. This is indicated by the statements about some people feeling strongly about including a number while others are indifferent, as well as the question of whether people might vote "no" if there were no number included. Additionally, there is a discussion about the different options of "three to five" and "four to five" and a show of hands to determine the preference.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 228.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Mr. Chairman, what about the other—is it “two to three” or “about three”. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That follows from the “three to five.” “Three to five” implies “two to three.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser is questioning whether the range is "two to three" or "about three" and seeking clarification on the numbers mentioned.


Passage number 229.
” VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And we’re putting in “once sales begin.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  “Once sales begin,” yes.  Okay.  Any objection to putting this in the minutes.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The participants are discussing and agreeing on adding a certain phrase to the minutes.


