Passage number 1.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I would like to introduce Michelle Ezer from the Markets Group.  Michelle and I actually had the interesting experience of writing a paper on the case for TIPS, right in the heart of the financial crisis, along with Jennifer Roush. I am not really sure how I managed to do that during that period, but, obviously, Jennifer and Michelle did most of the work.  So she is a coauthor. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay, thank you.  Seth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is introducing Michelle Ezer and giving background information about their collaboration on a paper during the financial crisis. The speaker also expresses gratitude to Jennifer Roush and acknowledges Michelle as a coauthor.


Passage number 2.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have two questions.  I appreciate all of the work that went into this.  It has been quite helpful to me in thinking about what is going on.  Seth has made a good summary of the uncertainties and the range and assumptions that are needed to get the point estimates. I want to focus on two things. One has to do with the assumptions about market segmentation and pass-through.  In some sense, the FRB/US assumes—as you mentioned, Seth—that the pass-through from the reduction of Treasuries to corporate and mortgage-backed securities is one-for-one, which suggests, as you alluded to, that there is more segmentation across duration than there is across asset classes, in the case of the models.  So one question I have would be, suppose that actually there was more segmentation across asset classes than across the term structure.  In other words, if 5-year Treasuries were a better substitute for 10-year Treasuries than mortgage-backed securities or corporate bonds are for 10-year securities—which is the way it is kind of structured in the model—how would that change your analysis of these effects.  That is one question.  And the second question is, you talked about the assumptions that are made and the uncertainties, and yet what we really got, at the end of the day, were some point estimates. So if I had to push you and I wanted to think about standard errors on these point estimates, how big do you think they are truly likely to be.  Can we tell the difference, given the uncertainties among these different strategies.  What is your assessment of that. So those are the two questions I have.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any specific statements that indicate disagreement or contention. It is a series of questions and statements expressing appreciation for the work done and seeking clarification on certain assumptions and uncertainties.


Passage number 3.
 MR. CARPENTER.  Okay. The first question, what if there were more segmentation across asset types than across maturities. I think pretty clearly what you would see in that case is that we might have an effect on Treasury yields if we are buying Treasuries, and that would tend to push down Treasury yields and widen the spread relative to other asset types.  And to the extent that it’s other interest rates that have a direct effect on economic activity, you would get a smaller effect.  So I think, in principle, that’s the way it would go. The hard part there, I think, is there has clearly got to be a little bit of that going on.  And the previous memo about market functioning that we sent around said we might get to the point where you are buying so much that you are dislocating the Treasury curve from the rest of market interest rates. I think we are very sensitive to that possibility, and I think the staff conclusion so far is that we haven’t gotten to that point.  And I think some of the other studies of LSAPs and how they work also point to pretty substantial spillovers to other asset classes—some Fed studies and some academic studies.  So I think that’s a reasonable hypothesis to maintain—I think it’s something that we will want to worry a lot about, especially if the purchases were so large that they were to somehow disrupt market functioning.  But my reading so far is that we are not there yet, for some of those reasons. Another reason is—especially if you go back to some of the previous LSAPs—as the Desk has made clear what segment of the market we are buying, there have been some pretty clear adjustments in interest rates at different points along the curve.  This suggests that the maintained hypothesis that we have, that the maturity matters a lot, is coming through in some of the event studies.  When the Desk helped the market understand exactly what the maturity distribution of purchases was going to be, we saw some movements of yields at the long end relative to the belly of the curve that suggest that people see this sort of segmentation across maturities.  In addition, I think some of the reaction to the MEP caused us to feel a little bit better about that assumption.  The movement in the short rate relative to the long rate, once you control for expectations, seemed to conform reasonably well with some of the interest rate models that we have. So I think the short answer is you would get a widening of spreads, and to the extent that Treasuries aren’t the thing that matters for economic activity, you would get less of an effect.  On the other hand, if you were to do mortgage-backed securities purchases, and the same hypothesis came up, then presumably you’d get a bigger effect just on the MBS rate, and presumably mortgages as well.  And so the scenario you bring up might be an argument for having both asset classes—an argument that we didn’t cover in the memo.  If there is this segmentation across asset types, then buying both Treasuries and MBS may be a good thing to do, because then you will be able to affect both of those rates, instead of relying on the purchases of Treasuries to also push down mortgage and MBS yields along with it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the potential effects of segmentation across asset types on Treasury yields and other interest rates. They mention previous studies and observations to support their conclusion that the Federal Reserve's purchases have not yet disrupted market functioning. They also mention the possibility of buying both Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities to affect both rates.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 4.
 MR. PLOSSER.  To interrupt just a second on that point, though, that begs the question about buying MBS—let’s say, even if it might help the mortgage market.  You don’t have any evidence on whether that pass-through to corporate and other asset classes is either differential or  the same or less than it would be with Treasuries. Are you assuming that other asset classes would follow the same amount then, in that kind of story.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage shows contention or disagreement. Mr. Plosser raises a question about the impact of buying MBS on other asset classes, suggesting that there is a lack of evidence to support the assumption made by the speaker.


Passage number 5.
 MR. CARPENTER.  Right.  So I was trying to go into the counterfactual world where we are assuming this asset segmentation.  And so there, there are lots of other hypotheses.  Our models sort of—and they are empirical models, where we get the results based on actual data— suggest that the purchases of MBS do have the same general effect on longer-term interest rates by pulling out the longer-term assets and pushing things down.  If we had a different model, we would have to confront all of those same questions that you asked, including, if there is a segmentation, what sort of pass-through would there be.  But the models that we have, and the estimation that we have done, suggest that we are getting more or less the same effect on longer-term rates of MBS and Treasuries.  I was just saying, in the alternate version of the world, where there is a segmentation, it might be an argument for buying two different types of assets that we didn’t discuss in the memo. Your second question about standard errors is a really good one, and it is hard.  There are lots of different models that we have coming together, and I think Dave can probably speak really knowledgeably about the standard errors, especially from the FRB/US model.  But there is layering, model upon model, to try to get these effects. I think we feel pretty good that we know for sure the sign of the first derivative, which is in what direction these things would happen.  We presented a lot of results, though, for different-sized LSAPs in the memos, as Michelle pointed out—$750 billion, $1 trillion, $2 trillion. I think we can’t say with any confidence that we know the difference between a $750 billion LSAP and a $1 trillion LSAP.  We are pretty sure we know that the $1 trillion one does more, but those are so close to each other that I don’t havemuch confidence in being able to differentiate.  It’s that sort of uncertainty I see, but I don’t know if you want to talk about the macro effects.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing different models and explaining the uncertainties in estimating the effects of different types and sizes of asset purchases.


Passage number 6.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I’m sorry.  Just to push it just a little bit.  So rather than the difference between $750 billion and $1 trillion, let’s just take one of them, the $1 trillion one.  And you estimate, what was it, 62 basis points on the unemployment rate after two years.  Was that it.  I can’t remember the exact number.  Whatever that number was, can you give me a standard error on that point estimate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a conversation where one person is seeking clarification on a specific point.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 7.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I’m going to come to that directly.  First, just to reiterate what Seth said, your logic is correct.  To the extent that you think that the pass-through from buying Treasuries into corporate bond yields, stock market prices, the exchange rate, and things like that, are less than in the model simulations, you are going to get smaller results. Second, I agree with Seth that the pass-through effects that we have in there—as we have been saying right from the start back in 2008, early 2009—are highly uncertain.  And as time has gone on, I think the one source of uncertainty that has gone down is the concern about whether purchases would have any effect.  At least we now think they have an effect. But having said that, there is still much uncertainty around these estimates. In terms of actually coming up with a confidence interval, I can’t do that, but I can say the following qualitative things that I think are helpful. First, take the model that Min Wei and Canlin Li developed that we are mainly using for pricing the effects on Treasuries and MBS.  Now, that model kicks out a standard error.  I don’t know what it is, but it does not have tight error bands.  There is considerable width to the confidence intervals.  That said, we think the number is reasonable.  But could the number be somewhat smaller or somewhat bigger.  Yes. One point on why it could be bigger is, if you go back to the first LSAP, the event studies  suggested the LSAP might have lowered Treasury yields by 100 basis points.  In the analysis that Min and Canlin are doing, it’s 50.  So that’s an example, where they are not necessarily taking the highest-side estimates. There are other studies that suggest that we could be getting lower effects on financial markets than in the FRB/US analysis.  On the other hand, FRB/US ignores some things, such as the potential pass-through to house prices; it has no effect in the simulations.  And, there are confidence effects that Seth alluded to.  Even if you knew what the financial effects would be, there would still be a substantial confidence interval for the economic effects.  I don’t have them off the top of my head, but we have generated confidence bands for FRB/US impulse responses over the years.  They are a lot like those in other models.  They are fairly significant around what the unemployment rate effect would be.  The effect could be considerably closer to zero, or it could be bigger.  Let’s say that, for a given LSAP, the point estimate is a half a percentage point on the unemployment rate after three years—that’s true for the way we are scoring alternative B. Could it be a quarter.  Yes.  A quarter is certainly inside the 70 percent confidence interval.  Could it be three-quarters of a percentage point. Yes.  That would be inside the 70 percent.  So that’s just saying what, I think, everyone agrees upon: there are very wide confidence intervals on these effects. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that there is uncertainty and wide confidence intervals around the effects of purchasing Treasuries and the potential pass-through to financial markets and the economy. The speaker also mentions different studies and models that suggest different effects, indicating a lack of agreement or consensus on the exact impact of these policies.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 8.
 MR. FISHER.  While I was listening to Seth’s disclaimers at the beginning, it sort of sounds like an Allegra ad on television [laughter]: These are the risks, et cetera.  And the papers actually were quite good.  The paper you particularly referenced had a lot of disclaimers in it.  And what I am interested in seeing vetted more thoroughly is the degree to which this compounds the complexity of an exit when we decide to exit.  It seems to me one of the virtues of, particularly, “The Effect of an Additional $1 Trillion LSAP on the Exit Strategy” was the discussion of substantial uncertainty.  There are lots of quotes in there that are qualified. It seems to me that the proponents of an extended LSAP would take a view from a signaling channel perspective that one of its benefits is that it is effective precisely because it makes it more difficult to either raise short-term interest rates or shrink the balance sheet for some time.  And in a way, what I am concerned about—and I am interested in learning more—is the degree to which we tie the hands of our successors, or if not tie—maybe that is too strong a word—we tangle their hands, and how much more difficult the exit strategy becomes. It strikes me that the stronger the recovery—that is, the more rapidly we achieve equilibrium interest rates—the harder it is going to be for us to exit.  And I would like to see that vetted a little bit more. I thought the papers touched on that, particularly the paper you referred to, but I think it would be helpful, Mr. Chairman, if we got a better sense of what complexities this imposes upon exit at the right time. Just a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, expresses concerns about the potential negative consequences of an extended LSAP (Large Scale Asset Purchase) program and questions whether it may make it more difficult for the Federal Reserve to exit the program in the future. He suggests that tying the hands of future policymakers and making the exit strategy more complex could be a potential downside of the LSAP. This disagreement is evident in his statement, "And I would like to see that vetted a little bit more."


Passage number 9.
 MR. CARPENTER.  No, that’s really helpful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. This can be determined as there is no statement or indication of opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 10.
 MR. FISHER.  I don’t know what your take is on this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing their uncertainty about the other person's opinion on the subject.


Passage number 11.
 MR. CARPENTER.  Absolutely.  We clearly have a lot of details to write down.  So if the Committee wanted to exit next week, or something like that, we would have lots and lots and lots and lots of details to write down, none of which are we prepared to give you right now, because the world presumably, between now and exit, is going to change.  And so it is going to take some time. That said, I just want to leave you with one thought.  When we were writing these memos, one of the first points that we wanted to have clear in our heads before writing them—all of the staff who were working on this, including staff at the Desk who are experts on bothfinancial markets as well as the execution of things and the staff at the Board—was, does anybody think that if we were to do another LSAP as envisioned in these memos, that when the Committee wants to tighten monetary policy, the staff would not be able to follow through on that.  Because I wanted to make sure that everybody was able to look in their heart of hearts and say, “We think that the Committee will be able to tighten policy appropriately to hit its dual mandate,” and everybody said, “Yes, we think we are in that situation.” How we do it is not perfectly clear yet, for a variety of reasons.  But we would have had to write a very, very different memo, I think, if we really thought there was some risk to the conduct of monetary policy in terms of our ability to execute the exit strategy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is emphasizing the need for clear and detailed writing of memos and expressing the importance of ensuring that the Committee will be able to tighten monetary policy appropriately.


Passage number 12.
 MR. FISHER.  You point out in the memo that there is a learning process here, in terms of the different tools that might be used.  But I still think we should press this in our discussion before proceeding.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In the passage, Mr. Fisher acknowledges that there is a learning process involved in using different tools, but expresses his opinion that they should discuss the matter further before moving forward. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in this statement.


Passage number 13.
 MR. CARPENTER.  Absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The word "absolutely" is used to provide agreement or affirmation, rather than contention or disagreement.


Passage number 14.
 MR. FISHER.  Yes, sir.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: In the given passage, Mr. Fisher simply responds with "Yes, sir," without showing any signs of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 15.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I want to follow up on one point because it also relates to what President Plosser was talking about.  I think, whether it is connected to fear that we won’t be able to exit or whether it is a signaling that the Committee is willing to be more accommodative persistently out in the future, those policy expectations can have a big effect on some of the results.  Often, the way we score things—and I think I threw out a half a percentage point a second ago—doesn’t take into account this additional signaling effect about the future path of the funds rate that you potentially can get.  There is some evidence from the event studies that you did get it with the first two LSAP programs—that by announcing a program, you are also sending the signal that you are going to be more willing to keep rates lower for longer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the potential effects of policy expectations on the results of certain actions taken by the Committee. They mention that the signaling effect of announcing a program can potentially influence the future path of the funds rate.


Passage number 16.
MR. FISHER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: This question cannot be answered as the passage mentioned is not available.


Passage number 17.
  That’s what I was— MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Right. At least as far as the model scores it, if that’s fully credible, if the expected funds rate path the market has really flattens out, in principle, you get a nontrivial kick from that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement providing an explanation or clarification about a specific topic.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 18.
 MR. CARPENTER. The only thing to highlight, though, is the difference between a willingness to keep the interest rate lower for longer versus an ability to raise them.  And we don’t currently worry about the second part—we don’t worry about the ability to raise interest rates.  But what the Committee decides to do, obviously, is about the willingness to keep interest rates lower.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that there is a difference between the willingness to keep interest rates lower and the ability to raise them. They then state that they are not currently worried about the ability to raise interest rates, suggesting a disagreement with someone or a differing viewpoint on the matter.


Passage number 19.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing gratitude.


Passage number 20.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Does the FRB/US model allow you to isolate the kind of intermediate estimates—that might be credit aggregates or asset price index levels—that fit between lower interest rates and GDP growth, so that you could actually get a sense of the transmission mechanism working through the model.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question asking about the capabilities of the FRB/US model.


Passage number 21.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. You can snip certain transmission mechanisms and see what it does to the total effect if you just zero it out.  We have done experiments like that, and what it shows is, roughly speaking, changing Treasury yields, if it doesn’t go out into any other asset prices, doesn’t do anything in the model, to a first approximation.  What matters is that it goes into private long-term interest rates, like MBS and corporates; second, that it goes into the stock market; and, third, that it goes into exchange rates.  So you can think of it as three channels: cost of capital, wealth effects, and exchange rate.  The model says each of those is worth roughly a third of the overall effect.  So if you didn’t believe one of the channels was operating, or you   thought it was operating only half as effectively as it usually does, you could then scale the numbers down with that rough math.  And that would be approximately correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining the results of experiments and the three channels through which changing Treasury yields have an effect. They also provide a rough estimate of the impact of each channel.


Passage number 22.
  But in terms of what it implies for bank lending, or something like that, no, the model doesn’t— MR. LOCKHART.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, the speaker is stating that the model does not imply anything for bank lending. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 23.
 It doesn’t explicitly estimate the— MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. It doesn’t have any explicit predictions about what happens to bank lending or anything like that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 24.
 MR. LOCKHART.  So to simplify, for my purposes, the exercise assumes some kind of historical correlation between lower interest rates and economic activity.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states that the exercise assumes a historical correlation between lower interest rates and economic activity, without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting information.


Passage number 25.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The answer is yes. The phrase "Yes" indicates that there is contention or disagreement in the passage. However, without the surrounding context, it is difficult to determine the exact nature or extent of the disagreement.


Passage number 26.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Which may or may not prevail in this current situation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply presents a statement without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 27.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Which may or may not prevail, with one very important caveat.  Because housing is at such an extraordinarily low percentage of GDP, in essence, that historical correlation has been marked down in these analyses.  Ordinarily housing is a big source of a kick.  In these scenarios, the direct channel on housing construction activity is worth hardly anything.  It’s a little bit, but it’s very small.  That could be right or wrong, but in the results that Seth was showing and that were in all the other analysis we’ve sent you, there is, in that very important sense, an attenuation of the effectiveness of monetary policy, whether it’s conventional or unconventional right now. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It discusses the impact of housing on GDP and monetary policy without presenting conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 28.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to follow up on this issue about confidence intervals.  In figure 1, there would be data uncertainty; there would be uncertainty about transmission channels; there would be uncertainty about models.  If you layered all of that together, you are going to get very wide confidence intervals.  But onexhibit 2, where we are looking at the SOMA holdings, there we can sort of mechanically map out, more or less, what is going to happen.  There is some uncertainty based on interest rates, and so on, but I just want to be clear on this: This is much more solid, I would say, than page 1, which is very uncertain and very speculative about what the effects might be. Is that a fair assessment. MS. EZER. Our portfolio projections depend importantly on the interest rate assumptions that were provided, so those confidence intervals will feed through into our projections when it comes to things like Federal Reserve income over time.  When it comes to, say, the top-left panel, the path of the portfolio over time, the confidence interval is probably a little bit smaller, provided that the assumptions that we made about the timing of liftoff and the strategy used for exit remain constant.  There the confidence band would be in your projections for prepayments on your MBS portfolio.  But since you are assuming that you are going to get rid of your holdings of agency securities over a set period of time, it is just going to change kind of the wiggles in how MBS declines over that period.  But we would still eliminate it over a five-year period with confidence.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speakers are discussing different aspects of confidence intervals and acknowledging the uncertainties and variations in different projections and assumptions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 29.
 MR. BULLARD.  Just one other comment, Mr. Chairman.  On exhibit 2, panel 4, “Deferred Asset.”  That is kind of a nice term, “deferred asset.” As far as I know, the Committee has never used the deferred asset.  It strikes me as a possible political firefight to bring that into play.  All of the scenarios here, other than option 1, if I’m reading this correctly, would bring the deferred asset into play, with possible repercussions, I think, for the Federal Reserve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, expresses skepticism about the term "deferred asset" and suggests that its introduction into the discussion could lead to a political conflict.


Passage number 30.
 MR. CARPENTER. Just a small bit of clarification:  It has never been the case that we have had, for the Federal Reserve System as a whole, a deferred asset.  It has been the case on several occasions that there has been a deferred asset for a given Reserve Bank.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think the defense in that case would be that the total, which was including the very high remittances early in the period, still would be higher than historical norms.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing clarification and stating facts about the Federal Reserve System.


Passage number 31.
 MR. POTTER.  That’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage simply states a statement made by Mr. Potter, without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 32.
 MR. BULLARD.  That might be a hard story to tell when the time comes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman, you have a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a statement made by Mr. Bullard followed by a statement acknowledging the Vice Chairman.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 33.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  I think the confidence intervals on interest rates are going to be almost proportionate to the confidence intervals on the real economy variables, because you are not going to know what the trajectory of short-term rates is going to be or the shape of the yield curve. And, in fact, you are probably even more uncertain about the shape of the yield curve because you have never gone from purchasing all of these assets to selling all of these assets.  So we don’t really know how the market is going to react to that. The second thing I just want to note very briefly is a lot of this also depends on what monetary framework you are actually going back to.  And the presumption of the staff memo is that we are going back to a corridor system.  But you might decide, as you go through this, that maybe IOER works pretty well. And you might actually want to go back to a floor system that would allow you quite a bit more discretion in terms of how your exit actually works.  And that would feed into a lot of these projections.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Again, I want to thank the staff for all of the work you did to help prepare us for this meeting, including the work on LSAPs, but also work on other tools like IOER.  So we appreciate it very much.  Let me turn to item 2 and call on Simon Potter to discuss financial developments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.


Passage number 34.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Two questions for Mr. Potter.  The first has to do with the duration of our holdings of agency MBS.  The graph indicates the average duration of our current holdings is around two.  Now, would our average duration of purchases under what we’re going to talk about later today or tomorrow, would that be substantially larger. Do you have a sense of what that would be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a straightforward question and request for information.


Passage number 35.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes.  Somewhere between four and six.  Is that right, Nate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states a response from Mr. Potter regarding a numerical range.


Passage number 36.
 MR. WUERFFEL. That’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. MR. WUERFFEL simply affirms that something is correct.


Passage number 37.
 MR. LACKER.  Four and six.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "Four and six" does not involve any opposing or conflicting viewpoints. It appears to be a simple numerical response.


Passage number 38.
 MR. POTTER. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage only includes a statement made by Mr. Potter, there is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 39.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  So the other question I have—I was at a conference a couple of weeks ago.  I believe I saw you there, Mr.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Lacker attended a conference and saw another person there.


Passage number 40.
 Potter, and— MR. POTTER. Symposium, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply mentions the name "Potter" and the word "symposium" without providing any context or indication of disagreement.


Passage number 41.
 MR. LACKER.  An economist there was arguing that the effect of our forward guidance occurred more via revisions in investors’ expectations about future economic conditions rather than a change in their views about our future reaction function, and because you folks have such rich interactions with the dealer community and you talk to them about this forward guidance, I wondered if you guys had a view as to the economist’s assertion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 42.
 MR. POTTER. Those dealer economists also read about Jackson Hole.  Some of them were there, so I think they viewed that with quite a lot of interest.  In the dealer survey, some  people thought that the change in rate guidance might be not just a calendar type, but trying to distinguish it from just a pure expectation of where you expected the economy to be.  I don’t think it’s possible to get a very clear answer from these respondents, because I don’t think the FOMC’s been completely clear on this either. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "I don’t think it’s possible to get a very clear answer from these respondents, because I don’t think the FOMC’s been completely clear on this either." indicates that there is a lack of clarity or agreement on the issue being discussed.


Passage number 43.
 MR. FISHER.  Simon, I think I heard you correctly.  So we’ve been purchasing about a third of the eligible TBAs, and you also mentioned that there’s a planned increase in the rate of GSE wind-downs to 15 percent from the 10 percent level earlier.  Is that likely to change. If we were to proceed with just $30 or $40 billion, as outlined in alternative B, would that change our percentage of the eligible TBA purchases, given the contraction that’s occurring among the agencies. If my memory is correct, they had about $1.4 trillion.  It goes back to last March. I can’t remember the last time I looked at the numbers.  So that’s about $15 billion; 15 percent translates to about $15 billion, I think, in the contraction.  I’m just curious if it affects the percentage of eligible TBA that we’d be holding if we were to proceed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a series of questions and statements seeking clarification and information.


Passage number 44.
 MR. POTTER.  No, I don’t think so.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 45.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. MS. LOGAN. We’re currently purchasing about a third of gross issuance.  That number is going to go up to 60 to 75 percent, depending on which option the Committee chooses.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating the current and future percentage of the purchases being made by the Committee.


Passage number 46.
 MR. FISHER.  Right, so that is not affected by— MS. LOGAN.  The reduction that the GSEs are doing is happening in more than just TBAs; they’re reducing in other types of securities as well.  So I would think that number is probably fairly small.  In terms of the total amount outstanding, we’re currently going to have about 18 percent of the MBS, and that would move to about 25 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents two individuals discussing the reduction that the GSEs are doing in various securities. They are providing different perspectives on the impact of this reduction, but there is no clear contention or disagreement.


Passage number 47.
   MR. FISHER.  Okay, thank you.  And just an observation, if you look at your panel 5 and, particularly, the high-yield spread on panel 6, things obviously are going our way.  This is what we would like to see, as well as the equity price response.  What doesn’t seem to be going our way—and I only point it out as an offset, even though it’s a short time horizon—is it seems that the breakeven inflation rates—whether it’s the 5-year, 5-year forward; the 5-year; the 10-year, which is not on this chart—bottomed in the spring of this year, and the slope is upward.  We can talk, perhaps, later.  I don’t know if we’ve done an LSAP-type program in a context of rising inflation expectations or not. I think there was at least a chart in the Tealbook that would indicate we haven’t done one yet under those circumstances. But I just point out, Mr. Chairman, that if you draw a line from the bottom of the 5-year rate, it really bottomed out in the summer of 2011 and has been on the rise. I’m not saying it’s dangerous, and it may be something that we would like to encourage, or some at this table would like to encourage, but we do have rising inflation expectations.  And to say inflation expectations are contained—we might think about how we want to phrase that as we get down to the policy statement of tomorrow. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’m not sure I take the same inference.  The 5-by-5 is pretty flat and is lower than it was last year.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply making an observation and providing information for further discussion.


Passage number 48.
 MR. FISHER.  And the 5-year. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  At the margin, and the 5-year is obviously being affected by the oil price movements.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about the 5-year being affected by oil price movements.


Passage number 49.
 MR. FISHER.  And the 10-year also is not on this chart, and then gold prices, of course, have increased significantly, for those who care about that ancient relic.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It presents information about the 10-year chart and the increase in gold prices for those interested in that subject.


Passage number 50.
  MR. POTTER. It is true that the deflation risk we can calculate is lower than it was in 2010.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage states a fact without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 51.
 MR. FISHER.  Right.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions for Simon. [No response] Okay.  Seeing none, we need to vote to ratify domestic open market operations since August.  Without objection.  Okay.  Our next item is the economic and financial situation, and David Wilcox and his colleagues will make that presentation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker asks if there are any questions for Simon, to which there is no response. Then they proceed to vote on ratifying domestic open market operations without objection. The next item is the economic and financial situation, which will be presented by David Wilcox and his colleagues.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 52.
 MR. WILCOX.3  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think there should be a single summary exhibit. You all may be relieved to know that my prepared text includes 1,192 words, and I do not plan to ad lib an additional 2,000 words into my delivery.  [Laughter] As you can see from the upper-left panel of the forecast summary exhibit, the near-term outlook for real GDP growth in last week’s edition of the Tealbook is broadly similar to the one that we sent you in July.  To be sure, the July gain in real PCE was better than we had expected.  However, consumer sentiment—shown in the lower-left panel—has remained downbeat, job gains have been modest, and the price of gasoline has moved back up, all of which caused us to largely discount the favorable spending news.  Similarly, July shipments of capital goods were stronger than we had expected, but forward-looking indicators, including the continued decline in the capital goods orders data, as well as the subdued responses to various surveys on capital spending plans and business conditions, are consistent with only subdued near-term increases in business outlays.  If you squint hard at the upper-left panel, you will detect that we shifted a little GDP growth from the second half of this year into the first half of next, reflecting our assessment that the drought will depress farm output in the second half of this year by more than we had predicted in July. The one component of aggregate demand that has seemed to have been on a somewhat stronger trajectory relative to our expectation in the July Tealbook was net exports.  Even so, last week’s forecast called for GDP growth to average just 1.8 percent through the middle of next year, about in line with our prediction for the growth of potential over this period. Since the Tealbook closed, the main piece of economic news was last Friday’s employment report.  In a seeming exception to Dave Stockton’s famous description of the usual shelf-life of the staff economic forecast, our jar of mayonnaise survived its first 48 hours in the Mojave Desert with only relatively minor signs of spoilage.  [Laughter]  The red line in the bottom-right panel summarizes our effort to combine 3 The materials used by Mr. Wilcox are appended to this transcript (appendix 3).   the signals from the establishment and household surveys (the latter of which is not shown on the chart because it is so noisy compared with the establishment results), and to control for weather effects and recession-related seasonal adjustment distortions.  As you can see from the downward tilt toward the end of that line, the estimated underlying pace of private payroll employment growth has trended lower over the course of this year and now is at the low end of the range that it has occupied during the past 2½ years.  The unemployment rate unexpectedly declined 0.2 percentage point, but like many other analysts, we have been inclined to see more weakness than strength in the totality of the results from the household survey, given that the employment measure from that survey and the participation rate both declined.  Based on our projected path for real GDP over the next several quarters, we continue to expect the unemployment rate to average around 8¼ percent through the first half of next year.  I should also note that the workweek was lower than we had expected, and average hourly earnings were flat, rather than increasing slightly as we had expected.  In combination, these results suggest a modestly weaker trajectory for compensation and, therefore, household spending than we had factored into the Tealbook. Two other key pieces of information released since the Tealbook were also weaker than expected.  In particular, vehicle assembly plans now point to a slower pace of motor vehicle production in the third and fourth quarters than we had projected in the Tealbook, while—as Steve will discuss shortly—the latest foreign trade data were slightly to the soft side of our expectations in terms of their implications for GDP growth. In all, these bits of information would cause us to shave about ¼ percentage point off our forecast for the pace of real GDP growth during the second half of this year, leaving our forecasted average growth rate for this quarter and next at an anemic 1¼ percent. Turning to the medium term, we upgraded our outlook slightly relative to our July projection.  As Steve will discuss, the improvement, such as it is, partly reflects a somewhat less worrisome situation in Europe than we had previously believed.  As we described in the Tealbook, even after factoring in the disappointment that we think would ensue from an announcement of no change in the stance of monetary policy at the conclusion of this meeting, we judge that stock prices would remain on a slightly higher trajectory and the dollar would be slightly weaker than we assumed in the previous projection.  These small positive influences are only partly offset by the increase in oil prices, part of which may itself reflect the improvement in sentiment related to the crisis in Europe. The small upward revision to real GDP over the medium term led us to shave a little off of our projected path for the unemployment rate, which is shown in the top-right panel of the exhibit.  Even by the end of next year, however, we expect no significant reduction in the unemployment rate. As real GDP accelerates more into 2014, the unemployment rate declines about ½ percentage point, ending that year at about 7½ percent.Aside from the crisis in Europe, the other main concern that continues to loom over the domestic outlook is the fiscal cliff.  On this front, there have been no major developments recently, and we continue to expect none, at least through the November elections.  At this stage, I can only assure you that our decision to stand pat on our fiscal policy assumptions reflects no lack of concern or uncertainty on our part:  The fiscal cliff continues to figure prominently in our thinking as a serious threat to the still-anemic recovery. Turning to the inflation outlook, the incoming data on core PCE price inflation— the middle-right panel—have been close to our expectations.  We continue to project that core inflation will hold steady at about 1½ percent through the end of 2014, reflecting anchored inflation expectations, a persistent margin of labor and product market slack, and modest gains in imported goods prices. In response to the upward move in spot prices for crude oil since the July Tealbook, we have marked up our near-term projection for headline PCE inflation— the middle-left panel.  We have, however, made only small revisions to our near-term food price forecast.  Although we now expect the quantity effects of the drought to be worse than we had forecast in July, the futures prices that we used in preparing our July food price projection had apparently already incorporated almost all of the price effects.  Despite the upward pressure from food prices that we think will begin to show through around the end of this year, we expect headline inflation to step down slightly in the first part of next year, as the anticipated reduction in crude oil prices implied by futures markets pushes down retail energy prices.  Steve will now continue our presentation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage mentions multiple instances where the forecasted growth and expectations did not meet the actual results. For example, the passage states that consumer sentiment remained downbeat, job gains were modest, and the price of gasoline increased, causing the forecast for GDP growth to be discounted. Additionally, the forecast for vehicle assembly plans and foreign trade data were also weaker than expected. These discrepancies between forecasted and actual results indicate a level of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 53.
 MR. NELSON.5 I will be referring to the packet labeled “Material for Briefing on the Summary of Economic Projections.” As shown in the top panel of exhibit 1, under your individual assessments of appropriate monetary policy, you see real GDP expanding only moderately this year, but you expect the pace of the recovery to pick up next year and that economic growth in 2014 and 2015 will be somewhat above its longer-run value.  Correspondingly, you expect the unemployment rate, shown in the second panel, to stay near recent readings for the rest of the year, before gradually declining over the subsequent three years.  All of you expect that the unemployment rate at the end of 2015 will be appreciably below its present rate; nevertheless, almost all of you expect it to be above what you judge to be its longer-run normal level.  Turning to the bottom two panels, you generally expect total PCE inflation of around 1¾ percent over the four quarters of 2012.  For 2013 through 2015, you generally see core and overall inflation staying close to or slightly below your 2 percent inflation objective. Exhibit 2 tabulates the ranges and the central tendencies of your projections, along with comparisons to the June SEP and the current staff forecast.  Compared with your June projections, you now anticipate a slightly stronger recovery and a somewhat larger decline in the unemployment rate over the projection period.  Your inflation outlook is little changed.  The Tealbook forecast—which embeds the assumption of no additional accommodation—puts economic growth in 2013 and 2014 at the lower end of your central tendency, and the unemployment rate above it; the 2015 forecasts, however, are within the central tendency.  The Tealbook forecast for inflation runs consistently below your central tendencies for 2013 to 2015. 5 The materials used by Mr. Nelson are appended to this transcript (appendix 5).   Exhibit 3 provides an overview of your assessments of the appropriate path for the federal funds rate.  As shown in the top panel, most of you think that it will not be appropriate to begin raising the funds rate until 2014 or later.  About two-thirds of you now see firming only beginning in 2015 or 2016, compared with about one-third of you in June.  Four of you—two fewer than in June—now believe that economic conditions will warrant increasing the federal funds rate before 2014.  Two of you favoring a funds rate increase before 2014 cited the need to tighten policy relatively soon in order to prevent inflation from exceeding the Committee’s 2 percent objective, and two pointed to the need to forestall financial imbalances.  Many of those who would not raise the funds rate until 2014 or later cited sizable output or unemployment gaps alongside an inflation profile unlikely to exceed 2 percent over the medium run. The bottom two panels of the exhibit provide your assessments of the appropriate target for the federal funds rate at the end of each year of the forecast period and over the longer run.  For the 6 participants who see the funds rate leaving the effective lower bound in 2014 or earlier, the median value for the funds rate at the end of 2014 is 1.75 percent.  The 12 participants who expect that the funds rate will not leave the lower bound until 2015 judge that the appropriate funds rate at the end of that year will be 1.6 percent or less, while the 1 participant who sees the start of firming in 2016 sees the funds rate at 75 basis points at the end of that year (not shown). Fourteen of you now judge that “appropriate monetary policy” calls for a more accommodative path for the federal funds rate than in your June SEP, involving either a lower target for the funds rate at the end of the initial year of firming or a shift out in the first year of firming.  Moreover, 11 of you indicated that appropriate policy calls for additional asset purchases, at this meeting or before long. Exhibit 4 depicts the economic conditions that you anticipate for the year in which you expect the first funds rate increase. Your projected unemployment rates range from about 5¾ to 8 percent, with a median of 6½ percent, while your inflation projections are in a narrow range of roughly 1¾ to 2¼ percent, with a median rate of 2 percent.  Generally, participants who expect the first funds rate increase in 2012 or 2013 (shown by the blue triangle and white diamonds) see a higher level of unemployment at the time of the first funds rate increase than do those reporting later firming dates (shown by the gray circles, dark blue squares, and the gray triangle). The final exhibit reviews your assessments of the uncertainty and risks surrounding your economic projections.  As shown in the top two panels in the column on the left, almost all of you continue to indicate that you judge the current level of uncertainty about GDP growth and unemployment to be higher than the average level over the past 20 years.  The corresponding panels to the right indicate that you continue to view the risks to GDP growth as weighted toward the downside and, accordingly, the risks to unemployment as weighted to the upside.  Many of you attributed your continued emphasis on downside growth risks to concerns about Europe and U.S. fiscal policy; other factors cited included uncertainty about the level and growth rate of potential output and the possibility of a hard landing in China. Turning to the bottom two panels, 8 of you assess the uncertainty attending your projections for total PCE inflation as higher, and another 10 of you see the uncertainty as broadly similar to the average level of uncertainty over the past two decades.  Most of you continue to see the risks to inflation, shown to the right, as broadly balanced.  Thank you.  That concludes the staff presentations. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much for your presentation.  The floor is open for questions.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 54.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Wilcox, the lower right-hand panel displays a model estimate, and I was wondering what it’s an estimate of.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 55.
 MR. WILCOX. It’s a statistical exercise that tries to combine several different sources of information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply explains what a statistical exercise aims to do. There is no contention or disagreement evident.


Passage number 56.
  First and most broadly, it combines the payroll survey estimate of job gain with an adjusted measure from the household survey, where the adjustments— MR. LACKER.  Have been comparable.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is providing an explanation of how two different surveys are combined. The phrase "where the adjustments— MR. LACKER. Have been comparable" indicates that there is agreement or similarity in how the adjustments are made.


Passage number 57.
 MR. WILCOX.  —try to take the household measure and do about a dozen or 15 adjustments that put it on, as conceptually as possible, an apples-to-apples basis with the establishment survey. The second category of information that it builds in is that we had one of our seasonal adjustment experts, Charlie Gilbert, take a close look at this series, specifically with a question in mind of trying to discern effects on seasonal factors that stem from the timing of the sharp downdraft in employment in 2008 and 2009, and to advise us on the extent to which those timing effects may have bled into seasonal factors, causing published estimates of seasonally adjusted job growth around the turn of the year to be systematically higher than they should actually be. The third type of information that’s built in is a regression-based analysis of weather effects.  It seems like a dim memory at this point, but we had, as you will recall, an extraordinarily warm winter this year, and there was some speculation that that may have shifted the timing of employment.  Those weather-related effects are pretty small, but they’re included   here, as well, for the sake of completeness.  And then around all of that, what we do is just apply a simple Kalman filter to the resulting series in an effort to extract for you where we think all this statistical evidence would point in terms of what’s the best available estimate of job gain, taking account of all that information that’s available to us. So it’s, at some level, nothing more than a statistical exercise to try to extract signal from noise.  On the other hand, it packs in a tremendous amount of information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the different types of information and analysis included in their approach to estimating job gain.


Passage number 58.
 MR. LACKER.  Those all sound like very useful and constructive statistical initiatives.  I just wondered what the target you were aiming at trying to estimate is. I mean, is it the trend or the current value.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker shows interest and asks for clarification, but there is no disagreement present.


Passage number 59.
 MR. WILCOX. It’s essentially a smoothed trend that takes account of both the information in the establishment survey and the household survey.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a straightforward statement of the concept of a smoothed trend that incorporates information from both the establishment survey and the household survey.


Passage number 60.
  I mean, I could reiterate: It takes account of that; it tries to adjust for weather and seasonal— MR. LACKER.  You’re aiming at a true measure of the current gain, or a true measure of the trend.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with the previous statement, emphasizing the importance of considering various factors in order to accurately measure current gain or trend.


Passage number 61.
 MR. WILCOX.  True measure of the current gain, smoothing through a variety of sources of noise.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a fact or concept about measuring the current gain.


Passage number 62.
 MR. LACKER.  A smooth measure of the current gain.  I’m less confused now. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You’re confused at a higher level. President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers seem to be in agreement that they were initially confused, but one of them has now gained clarity and the other person admits to still being confused.


Passage number 63.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I actually drove back from our western symposium this year with two geriatric dogs and other things, but I want to comment on the fact that driving across the state of Nebraska, what struck me was the drought and the corn crops and just how dead the entire state of Nebraska looked, at least from Interstate 80. You made some reference to the drought and the corn crop, and I remember reading somewhere—I couldn’t find it in my searching—about your estimated effects of the drought on GDP this quarter and next.  And I’d like to hear you talk a little more about what you think those effects were; the ramifications of those effects, of how they bleed, in some sense, through in your forecast to your employment forecast, for example, through an Okun’s law measure because GDP is lower; how much impact you thought it had on the gap in the near term; and how that dissipates through your forecast.  Can you just walk me through those linkages—this is clearly a classic supply shock of a drought—and how much then it feeds into other things that matter that we look at a lot for monetary policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is asking for clarification and more information on a specific topic.


Passage number 64.
 MR. WILCOX.  So I’ll take a first crack at it and invite my other colleagues to jump in with additional information.  We thought in July we had built in some quantity-related effects— about $10 billion is my recollection—on farm output.  This time, based on USDA assessments of field conditions—people may be doing something a little more systematic, out walking in the fields with their clipboard and so forth to look at corn yields; corn is one of the crops that is most affected—we think that it’s about a $30 billion hit to real farm output this time, so substantially bigger than what we had built into the July projection. We think that that’s likely to show up mostly in a decumulation of inventories in the third and fourth quarters.  The way that inventory arithmetic works, the hit to GDP growth is going to be concentrated in the third quarter.  We’ve got the same rate of inventory decumulation built into the fourth quarter, but because it’s the same rate of decumulation in both quarters, the effect on GDP growth we’ve penciled in is zero in the fourth quarter.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement by Mr. Wilcox about the projected impact on farm output and GDP growth. There is no conflicting information or opposing viewpoints presented.


Passage number 65.
  We also think there will be a small additional negative effect on agricultural exports as well, so that’s where in terms of the GDP accounting—  MR. PLOSSER.  And that led to how much of a decrease in your estimate of GDP growth for the third quarter.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the potential negative effect on agricultural exports and its impact on GDP growth.


Passage number 66.
 MR. WILCOX.  About 0.8 percentage point on GDP growth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is a statement of fact regarding the impact of something on GDP growth. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 67.
 MR. PLOSSER. Yes, 0.8 percentage point.  That’s what I thought I remembered.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser simply confirms what he remembered.


Passage number 68.
 MR. WILCOX.  We think—we hope—that’s going to be a transitory supply shock and that next year, our planning assumption has been, crop yields are going to come back to normal.  Now, there’s sort of a philosophical question about when that actually occurs.  If we were operating in annual data, it would be perfectly clear that it would happen in 2013.  However, the way that the BEA does it, and we’ve been in very close contact with them, is to smooth that through the four quarters of the calendar year, so that snap back to normal crop yields, basically at this point, of course, by assumption, occurs in the first quarter. So we’re mimicking the BEA’s algorithm in packing in the return to a normal level of GDP in the first quarter of 2013.  That’s not based on any pretense that anybody actually knows that that’s the way the corn plants are going to grow in 2013.  That’s just the BEA methodology.  I wouldn’t have anything better to suggest to them if I were in their shoes. Now, farm proprietors’ income actually sees a much smaller effect because prices are up and there’s crop insurance, and so the implications for nominal farm income are much less severe than they are for real output. We think that there’s likely to be very little effect on employment because we’ve made the assumption that employers are going to smooth through this transitory effect.  I wouldn’t be surprised, of course, if there was some effect on things like farm equipment manufacturers and that sort of thing, but I think that’s going to be lost in the noise in terms of our ability to actually estimate it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a discussion of the potential effects of a transitory supply shock on crop yields and its implications for GDP and employment.


Passage number 69.
 MR. PLOSSER.  So this wouldn’t show up in any sense on your estimates of the magnitude of your output gap over the next two quarters. Would you raise that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The question posed by Mr. Plosser is seeking clarification about the impact of certain factors on output gap estimates.


Passage number 70.
 MR. WILCOX.  Mechanically, I suspect our output gap will be a little wider over the second half of this year, and then it will just come back in the first quarter of 2013.  Is that right, Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a statement made by Mr. Wilcox, so there is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 71.
 MR. WASCHER.  Yes, that’s right.  Because we tend to set potential growth on an annual basis, we didn’t make an explicit adjustment to the gap measures you see in the Tealbook for the effects of the drought.  I would say that in terms of when we look at Okun’s law relationships and thinking about the path of the unemployment rate, we did take out the effect of the drought from potential in that equation.  So we didn’t want the drought to affect the unemployment rate forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily discusses the approach taken regarding potential growth, the effects of the drought on unemployment rate forecasting, and the desire to avoid the drought affecting the unemployment rate forecast.


Passage number 72.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes, that’s kind of what I was trying to get at.  Okay.  Thank you very much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Plosser's response indicates understanding and agreement with the previous point.


Passage number 73.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  One minor place it might show up, because we didn’t do the adjustment, would be in the Tealbook B rules thing. It’s pretty small, but the rules would respond to that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is mentioning a minor potential issue that could arise due to not performing an adjustment.


Passage number 74.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 75.
 MR. LACKER.  Did I just understand correctly that you removed the effect of the drought on the gap, the unemployment rate gap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a question asking for clarification.


Passage number 76.
 MR. WILCOX.  In our Okun’s law analysis, in setting the unemployment rate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement mentioned in the passage. It states that they are using Okun's law in analyzing the unemployment rate.


Passage number 77.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  It will bounce right back.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The phrase "It will bounce right back" suggests that something will quickly recover or return to its original state. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in this statement.


Passage number 78.
 MR. WILCOX.  I’m sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Wilcox is expressing an apology, indicating that he feels sorry for something.


Passage number 79.
   VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  The effects are just going to go away in two quarters.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The statement does not indicate any potential disagreement or contention. It simply states that the effects will go away in two quarters, without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting information.


Passage number 80.
 MR. WILCOX. It is a transitory effect.  The funds rate is constrained at zero.  So it doesn’t have any implication for the funds rate.  And in terms of calibrating the response of the unemployment rate to the GDP gap, we sterilized the GDP gap from transitory drought-related effects on GDP.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents information about the transitory nature of the effect on the funds rate and the calibration of the response to the unemployment rate.


Passage number 81.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  So let me just ask the question for which this is most germane— do inflation dynamics depend on this adjustment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question posed by Mr. Lacker.


Passage number 82.
 MR. WILCOX.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine the presence of contention or disagreement in the passage without the passage itself. Please provide the specific passage for a proper analysis.


Passage number 83.
 I think we’re talking about splitting a micron here, but— MR. LACKER.  Yes, but I’m just very curious about the principle here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses curiosity about a principle but does not express any opposing or contradictory views to the other person.


Passage number 84.
 MR. WILCOX.  The methodology is intended precisely to seal off the implications for core inflation.  I should say, of course, the first-order implication for inflation is through food prices.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply explains that the methodology is designed to prevent the implications for core inflation and recognizes that the initial effect on inflation is through food prices.


Passage number 85.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes, right, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 86.
 MR. WILCOX.  That has been allowed to feed through.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact or observation without expressing any conflicting opinions or ideas.


Passage number 87.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  But in terms of the gap’s effect on inflation, you want to sterilize it from the effect that the drought is going to have on real output and employment in a year or two.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of clarification and agreement between two parties.


Passage number 88.
 MR. WILCOX.  Correct, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states that Mr. Wilcox is correct, without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 89.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker's response does not indicate disagreement with the previous speaker's statement.


Passage number 90.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have a question for Andreas.  On exhibit 2, you have this chart that looks at nonfinancial sector credit to GDP.  I keep staring at it, and I am still trying to figure out what implications I’m supposed to draw from it.  The secular uptrend from 1956, at best, flattens out for a while.  So the first question is what implication do you think we were supposed to draw from this.  And, second, if you looked at a chart of nonfinancial sector assets to GDP, would that also show mostly a secular uptrend.  And then, how do you put those two together.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contentious or disagreed statements. It is simply a series of questions seeking clarification and information from Andreas.


Passage number 91.
 MR. LEHNERT.  I think there are key macro questions that are implicated by your question, which I’m not going to touch, but just from a financial stability perspective, at the very highest level, in some sense, financial stability concerns in a low-rate environment arise when you see people and businesses borrowing more.  This picture was just supposed to be an easy way to portray the fact that we’re not seeing households and businesses borrowing more.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their perspective on financial stability concerns in a low-rate environment. They mention that they are not going to address certain macro questions but provide a general observation about households and businesses not borrowing more.


Passage number 92.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Right.  We could also interpret it as, gee, credit to GDP is still really, really high, and, therefore, that means bad things.  That is what I was sort of getting at. So you don’t take a negative signal away at all from the total level of credit to GDP is still high.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing their interpretation or opinion about the high level of credit to GDP.


Passage number 93.
 MR. LEHNERT.  Yes, okay.  I treated that as a separate question.  So then there’s a question, are we approaching some kind of fiscal moment, some sort of Sargent−Wallace moment, where the global carrying capacity for U.S. sovereign obligations is being reached. That’s something that we highlighted in our report as a potential risk.  If there’s a material worsening in the fiscal outlook, or if there’s some really ugly resolution to the debt ceiling negotiations in January and so forth, all those things could have negative implications for future stability.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage is discussing the possibility of reaching a fiscal moment or a limit on the global carrying capacity for U.S. sovereign obligations. The speaker mentions that this is highlighted as a potential risk in a report and acknowledges that negative implications could arise from a worsening fiscal outlook or an ugly resolution to the debt ceiling negotiations. There is no disagreement or contention expressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 94.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But the total level here, if you add household, business, and government together, that’s not a good sign.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that the total level of household, business, and government combined is not positive or favorable, indicating contention or disagreement.


Passage number 95.
 MR. LEHNERT.  If you look across countries, you would see a lot of different levels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is stating a fact about different levels across countries without presenting any opposing viewpoints or creating conflict.


Passage number 96.
VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. They’re all over the place.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The phrase "They're all over the place" is not indicating any disagreement or contention. It is simply stating that something or someone is present or scattered in various locations. It does not imply any conflicting opinions or disputes.


Passage number 97.
 MR. LEHNERT.  Exactly.  So I don’t know why Denmark is one and Japan is a different one, but we can just judge the United States by its own history.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing confusion about the different ways in which different countries are judged.


Passage number 98.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. It simply consists of the phrase "Thank you" followed by the title "President Fisher."


Passage number 99.
 MR. FISHER.  First, I wanted to thank Andreas for a very good summary, very helpful graphics, and so on.  We’re in the middle of doing our SABR analysis for banks, and one of the positive attributes we have noticed is that we seem to be seeing a brighter picture for the average bank.  For example, the ones that we rate one or two probably are performing the best that we’ve seen in terms of the percentage of potential downgrades since December of 2006.  So I think that’s one positive aspect that wasn’t included.  I’m not being critical, but when you look at your second panel of long-term securities held by commercial banks and so on, there seems to be a healthier tenor, and we’re not done with the analysis yet, but I just wanted to point that out. With regard to seasonality, I wanted to ask Dave Wilcox about the August employment numbers; I think I’m correct in saying that that is a number that gets revised more frequently than others.  I think 17 of the last 22 years, it’s been revised, and if I remember correctly, last year it went from zero to 44,000 to 104,000, and I assume we’re taking account of the fact that that is often a highly unreliable number.  Am I correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is thanking someone for their summary and then providing some additional information and asking a question for clarification.


Passage number 100.
 MR. WILCOX.  We’re taking account of the fact that it is the best possible information, and we don’t confuse it with truth, absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is stating that they are aware that the information they have is the best available, but they are not claiming it to be absolute truth. There is no indication of disagreement or contention in this passage.


Passage number 101.
  [Laughter] MR. FISHER.  So we assume it gets revised more often than not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is presented as an assumption without any conflicting perspectives being expressed.


Passage number 102.
 MR. WILCOX. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 103.
  VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. The BLS has a confidence interval—the 90 percent confidence interval is plus or minus 100,000.  So that gives you an idea.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is a factual explanation of the confidence interval used by the BLS.


Passage number 104.
 MR. WILCOX.  It’s a sample-based estimate. It is based on a very large sample of employers. It’s a universal sample of large employers and a statistically drawn probability sample of medium and smaller employers, but there are a host of issues associated with constructing that number, including the fact that not everybody that ultimately will report, reports in the first wave of responses and that seasonal adjustment, as my remarks described earlier, involves a great deal of science but some art as well.  So I don’t have any specific reason for doubting or casting aspersions on the August number, but you’re absolutely correct that month in and month out, that’s a number that is subject to two-sided revision.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing additional information and acknowledging that there are certain challenges in constructing the estimate, but they do not express doubt or disagreement with the August number specifically.


Passage number 105.
 MR. FISHER.  And then lastly, just listening to Steve Kamin, this is perplexing about oil and gas prices, and particularly prices at the pump.  There may be some seasonality in terms of the switchover that occurs, but given the weaker economy, which I think almost all of our forecasts have envisioned, and given the production that’s taking place stateside, even accounting for the storm that took place in the Gulf, it just seems odd that we might expect oil prices to increase rather than hold level or decrease.  And for what it’s worth, the “oilies” that I speak to—from the independents to Tillerson at Exxon and so on—their expectation is that this has been a bit of a bulge, and that it’s more likely to settle down and actually decrease somewhat.  For what it’s worth—and I always emphasize that because Mr. Tarullo insists that I do so when I talk about my anecdotal evidence—I just wanted to pass that on.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is simply expressing his confusion about the expected increase in oil prices, given the weaker economy and the high level of oil production in the United States. He shares his anecdotal evidence from talking to people in the oil industry who believe that prices are more likely to decrease.


Passage number 106.
 MR. KAMIN.  Thank you. Just to be clear, our baseline forecast for crude oil prices in the markets is, indeed, to decline over time from the current level.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states the baseline forecast for crude oil prices and clarifies that they are expected to decline over time from the current level.


Passage number 107.
 MR. FISHER.  It wasn’t clear the way you presented it.  So I wanted to add that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher is simply expressing a clarification or request for further information.


Passage number 108.
  MR. KAMIN.  Yes.  So just to clarify, what I was alluding to was future upside risks that could take place if geopolitical problems in the Middle East became more pronounced than they are now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any contention or disagreement. It is simply seeking clarification on potential future risks in the Middle East.


Passage number 109.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 110.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to come back to the financial stability handout, exhibit 2, chart 1, which is “Nonfinancial Sector Credit-to-GDP Ratio.” In answer to the earlier question, you said that the cross-country evidence on this was all over the map, and that does not gibe with what I understood the cross-country evidence to be, which was that this line is basically trending up across the developed economies.  So it looks very similar actually.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. Mr. Bullard disagrees with the statement made earlier about the cross-country evidence on the Nonfinancial Sector Credit-to-GDP Ratio.


Passage number 111.
 MR. LEHNERT.  Sorry. I meant the cross-country evidence on the level.  I thought that Vice Chairman Dudley was asking, is 2.5 a magic number. I mean, this number is much bigger in some countries and much smaller in other countries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply clarifying their statement and addressing a potential misconception.


Passage number 112.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay, but the picture would look the same.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement as it simply states a fact.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 113.
 MR. LEHNERT. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The presence of the word "Yes" shows that there is agreement or disagreement in the passage, but without further context, it is not possible to determine the exact nature of the contention.


Passage number 114.
 MR. BULLARD. It has always been trending up, I guess.  The developed world has always been trending up, is that right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement indicated in the passage. Mr. Bullard is simply stating his belief about the trend in the developed world.


Passage number 115.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. The tricky part about this is if you have a secular trend of more intermediation, then this is going to be an upward-trending number, and so the degree of intermediation in a financial system really is important in terms of what number you get.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not present any contradictory or opposing viewpoints. It simply states that the degree of intermediation in a financial system is important in determining a specific number. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 116.
 MR. BULLARD.  When people showed this picture to me over the years, I always said, well, this was financial market deepening, and good things are happening in the intermediation sector.  It didn’t pan out so well later.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply acknowledges that their initial interpretation and optimism turned out to be incorrect.


Passage number 117.
 MR. LEHNERT.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The phrase "MR. LEHNERT" does not provide enough information to determine if there is any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 118.
  Well, and presumably by analogy, then, the fact that it’s now falling for the household and business sectors is— MR. BULLARD.  Yes.  Okay, thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President George. MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to make a comment on the financial stability report. I continue to find a lot of value in this, and I think particularly as we look at these trends in a low interest rate environment, I would take no exception to the conclusion that right now imbalances are not obvious.  But just thinking back to how we thought about land values in the 1980s, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, as we watched banks begin to concentrate in commercial real estate and even some of the subprime exposures, the point at which to know when to take signal from some of those things is very difficult, notwithstanding supervisors and others looking at them.  So I think as you continue to monitor this, as we get into December and beyond, looking at where these trends are going will be very important. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any other questions for our colleagues. [No response]  Okay.  Seeing none, on the agenda, we have an opportunity for participants who want to raise questions or issues related to financial stability.  And Vice Chairman, if you’d like to start off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are simply making comments and expressing their opinions without any conflicting views.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 119.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  Governor Yellen and I were in Basel over the weekend, and I have to say that there was a pretty strong sense of unanimity that what the ECB did was essentially the best that they could accomplish, given the various constraints under  which they were operating.  The fact that the purchases could be unlimited means that the program has the potential for actually being an effective backstop, and the fact that the ECB will be pari passu with other bondholders is important because it really will reduce the pressures on private holders.  So in effect, there may be private holders, if they view this as credible, who will actually want to invest in these sovereign instruments for a carry trade because the yield curves in these countries, of course, are very, very steep. There’s also a bit of carrot now to incent proper actions by the government.  So if you do the right thing, we will intervene and we will hold down your debt service cost.  And I don’t think there was that carrot before, so I think that’s pretty significant.  I think that the ECB has essentially put on the table something that could take the risk of an interest rate-debt service-fiscal deficit spiral a bit off the table as long as the countries do the right thing.  And in addition, if these purchases do, in fact, materialize, I think this does push you in the direction toward further fiscal union.  After all, the ECB is backstopped by the entire euro zone, so such purchases will increase the joint and several nature of the union.  And finally, I thought the other thing that was noteworthy about the ECB action was that it was a 22 to 1 vote, with only Weidmann of the Bundesbank dissenting.  Given the fact that the German political leadership, at least for now, seems to be supporting the ECB actions, this means that the Bundesbank’s opposition is somewhat marginalized at this point. So that’s the good news. Despite this, I don’t think we should kid ourselves.  I think the situation remains very tenuous despite the ECB’s supports.  I’d be, probably, slightly darker than Steve’s comments on this.  Several issues worth highlighting: First, the ECB program would only activate if the countries actually negotiate an MOU with the euro group, and already we’re hearing signs that Spain seems to be reluctant or slow in terms of pursuing it.  In fact, the Spanish may decide thatthe backstop might be effective even if they don’t seek an MOU.  That seems like a highly risky strategy, but it is something that they might decide to do.  Second, the program obviously will only continue if they stay on the program. And, third, it’s going to take a while for this all to be implemented because the MOU has to be negotiated with the euro group, and all of the finance ministers have to agree, and several parliaments actually have to approve the MOU.  So this idea that this is going to be happening very, very quickly—I think the market is probably a little bit ahead of itself in terms of how quickly this will come into play. Other issues—the ECB program will not necessarily crowd in investors, because it’s not clear how long this is going to last.  So you might buy things, but you still have quite a bit of risk.  You still have a very bad feedback loop from the austerity programs to the economy, to fiscal performance, and the state of the banking system.  This doesn’t take any of that off the table, and there’s still no road map as to where we’re actually going in terms of the ultimate destination:  What does greater fiscal union in Europe look like. So this is a very important thing that the ECB has done.  I think they did the best that they could possibly do, and the good thing is they put the problem back in the lap of the governments, where it belongs.  They have done what they can do now, and now it’s up to the governments to decide, both in the core and in the periphery, if they’re going to go along. The basic model, though, of this whole situation hasn’t changed.  Countries have to show they’re on a sustainable path to regain market access.  The core countries are unwilling to be explicit about the level of support because of fears that this will undermine the effort.  The constitutional court decision in Germany today, which was actually mostly positive, affirmed that the German commitment is limited to €190 billion—that’s it, and so that’s sort of significant. I think the unwillingness of the German Constitutional Court to be explicit does create uncertainty that makes progress more difficult.  So we do still have a long way to go, and we don’t have big, solid backstops to absorb shocks or support confidence.  The ESM–EFSF resources are still very much too small to credibly backstop Spain and Italy, and the ECB support may be too uncertain as to its sustainability.  So it’s progress, but there are still a lot of questions on the table. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is some contention in the passage. The speaker acknowledges the positive aspects of the ECB's actions and believes that the program has the potential to be effective in reducing pressures on private bondholders and incentivizing proper actions by governments. However, they also highlight several concerns and uncertainties, such as the need for countries to negotiate an MOU and potential reluctance to do so, the time it will take for the program to be implemented and approved, the potential for the program to not attract investors, and the lack of a clear roadmap for greater fiscal union in Europe. They also mention the limited support from core countries and the uncertainty surrounding the sustainability of the ECB's support. These concerns indicate a level of disagreement or skepticism about the effectiveness and long-term impact of the ECB's actions.


Passage number 120.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you for the financial stability report.  Like President George, I do appreciate the monitoring that you’re doing in this area.  I just had two quick questions.  They both relate to money market funds.  We’ve had an SEC proposal that wasn’t proposed, and I was wondering about your perspective looking at Europe, where there’s more than $1 trillion of money market funds and they have a mix of floating and fixed NAVs.  I don’t know how much time you spent looking at the European money market funds, but I’d be interested in your perspective on the industry’s concern with the floating NAV, which seems to have been successful in stopping forward movement.  And then the second question is, given that they have both floating and fixed NAVs in Europe, and the deposit rate went down to zero, is there anything to infer about interest on excess reserves from the European money market fund experience with the deposit rate going to zero.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for the Fed's perspective on money market funds and their interest in the European experience with floating and fixed NAVs and the deposit rate going to zero.


Passage number 121.
 MR. LEHNERT. Are those questions you’d like me to answer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lehnert is simply asking if there are specific questions he should answer.


Passage number 122.
 [Laughter] MR. ROSENGREN.  If not here, at another time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is a simple statement indicating that if something does not happen in the current situation, it may occur at another time.


Passage number 123.
 MR. LEHNERT.  Very, very briefly, and I certainly don’t approach your expertise in this area, we’ve long maintained that the redemption of par, what you call the fixed NAV, is useful in certain circumstances.  There are certain elements of the U.S. tax code and other things that make it useful.  But basically, at the end of the day, it’s just a safe place to put your money, and if it floats up and down a bit, it’s not the end of the world.  And, of course, the European experience highlights that, although presumably their tax treatment might be slightly different. Then what’s happened to European money markets since the deposit rate went to zero. It’s maybe still a little early to tell what the long-run effects are, but the initial wave of reports is that there hasn’t been an implosion of the money markets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing their perspective on the usefulness of redeeming par and discussing the European experience with money markets.


Passage number 124.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. You have this issue that the SEP has some people who have no change in policy; others have changes in policy.  That’s going to still be an outstanding issue going forward.  Do you have any thoughts on how we would— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, that’s what I’m raising—we have to figure out how to deal with that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. Explanation: The passage does not express any disagreement or contention. It simply raises a topic or issue to be addressed and asks for thoughts or suggestions on how to deal with it.


Passage number 125.
  One possibility would be to specify— VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  A, B, and C. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, yes—I suppose.  If we’re going to do the ex ante, before-meeting projection, then everybody would be asked to make a projection conditional on the policy prior to the meeting, and the forecast could be used to say, “We thought this was unsatisfactory.  That’s why we took the action we did today.”  Alternatively, we could ask for a forecast conditional on one or more policy actions.  But that’s an issue that this particular exercise has made clear, and I’m just flagging it for discussion by the subcommittee.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is presenting different possibilities and considerations for discussion.


Passage number 126.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. It’s interesting to see the difference that people submit in terms of the policy, because you actually find out what people think about how efficacious the policy is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, of course.  That’s right.  That’s certainly one of the benefits of doing that.  But everything that we are considering here also has the cost of multiplying the number of projections and forecasts we’re asking people to do, and that’s something we need to take into account.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges the benefits of understanding people's thoughts on the policy, and also raises a concern about the additional burden on people to make projections and forecasts. President Lacker's response is not provided in the passage, so it cannot be determined if there is contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 127.
MR. LACKER.  You mentioned parts of the consensus forecast process.  We’re asked to provide a forecast conditional on a certain policy path, and I’d urge the staff and all of us to give some thought to what that ought to mean.  As I read the instructions, I thought of four different interpretations of that.  You take as a given that what we’re trying to do in writing down a forecast is to write down the mean of a joint distribution of the economy and policy.  Well, if you ask us to submit a forecast conditional on a certain policy path, are you asking us to replace our reaction function with one that’s fixed at that path unchangingly, and averaging over that. What do all of the shocks have to be. What’s the most likely outcome that delivers that as the policy reaction—what economy is weak enough to justify that policy.  That’s a different question.  Or, do we take our reaction function and add-factor it so that it delivers that policy as a mean. There’s a bunch of different ways you can think of doing that, but we ought to be precise about it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course—we’ll have to be precise.  These are complexities. One possibility would be to have everybody, again, assume appropriate monetary policy and deliver that joint distribution that you’re describing; and then, try to see if there’s a center of gravity of that, which looks like the consensus; describe that consensus; and then describe those who differ and qualitatively how they differ.  So that would be one approach.  Another approach could be, for example, to ask people to use a specific reaction function or to specify their own reaction function.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement and contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, is questioning the interpretation and approach to providing a forecast conditional on a certain policy path. He presents four different interpretations and suggests the need for precision and clarity in determining the appropriate method. This suggests a disagreement or debate about the best approach to forecasting under certain policy conditions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 128.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. Yes—thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I like the idea, in principle, of having a consensus forecast based on status quo policy and then a consensus forecast based on the policy action.  I think, though, that in practice, the latter is going to be very challenging, because you could easily imagine that the Committee could come up with a choice of a policy action that they had not considered ex ante.  And then it becomes very difficult to know how the timing would work and to get the logistics to work. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No, absolutely.  And again, I think Governor Yellen’s subcommittee will solve these problems for us [laughter] and bring that to us in October.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota points out that while he likes the idea in principle, he believes that in practice, it would be very challenging to have a consensus forecast based on a policy action that may not have been considered beforehand. However, President Bullard dismisses this concern and suggests that Governor Yellen's subcommittee will solve these problems for them.


Passage number 129.
 MR. BULLARD. Let me just reiterate on this. I do think that the market expectation of the Committee’s policy as of a certain date, which encompasses all aspects of monetary policy, is a fixed point that we could rally around.  Everyone can give their prognostication based on that.  That would give us just one exercise to do.  Usually the market expectation is not a long way off.  It might be somewhat off, but it’s not a long way off, and it would simplify the exercise in my mind and would keep it clearer what we’re doing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s, of course, what the British and some others do.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their opinion and suggesting a possible approach that could simplify and clarify the exercise. There is no opposition or conflicting viewpoint presented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 130.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The text indicates that Mr. Bullard responds to something said by President Evans, suggesting there is contention or disagreement between them.


Passage number 131.
 MR. EVANS.  Does that address President Lacker’s concerns.  I wouldn’t have thought so. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Not exactly.  Only if it’s approximately right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Evans is simply stating that he doesn't think the previous statement fully addresses President Lacker's concerns, but he does not strongly disagree or argue against it.


Passage number 132.
 MR. EVANS. Yes—right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Anybody else.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is merely a series of statements and questions.


Passage number 133.
 MR. FISHER.  Narayana made the point I was going to make. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other comments or questions. Again, we will be discussing this at the next meeting.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 134.
MR. EVANS.  Could I ask a question that’s a little bit different. It was triggered by some comments that President Fisher made earlier in asking questions, where he alluded to the fact that some people around the table would be, however you put it, more accepting of a higher inflation rate than others, or whatever.  And in exhibit 2 on page 5, this question comes to my mind, which is, there is an optimal control path that is shown that has inflation rising to—I think it’s 2.3 percent, if it’s consistent with previous Tealbook-style analyses. I personally don’t see anything in this path that’s inconsistent with our longer-run strategic approach that we adopted in January, and I just wonder if that’s the sense of the Committee or if there’s an important divergence of opinion there, which seems to be one of the points that President Fisher might have been raising. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think we are clear that our objectives are—think of a quadratic objective function.  They’re symmetrical.  There is an increasing marginal cost of being away from each objective. We have a balanced approach, but people will have different models of the economy, and they’ll have different weights in their objective functions.  So this is obviously not a purely value-fee projection.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply discussing the potential differing opinions and models among committee members regarding inflation rates and their alignment with the longer-run strategic approach.


Passage number 135.
 MR. BULLARD. Is exhibit 2 something that would be distributed as part of the consensus forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Again, nothing has been decided, but I wouldn’t imagine we would want to do all of those things.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing the distribution of exhibit 2 as part of the consensus forecast and expressing their thoughts on the matter.


Passage number 136.
 MR. BULLARD.  So this is just an internal document, like the ones we always use. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any statement or indication of contention or disagreement. It simply states that the document being referred to is an internal document used regularly.


Passage number 137.
 MR. EVANS.  I wasn’t asking a question about communications.  I was asking more a question about how we interpret our longer-run strategic document, because at various times, we   make different comments about these types of outcomes, and it strikes me that there’s less agreement on that particular observation than sometimes is given by the words that we use. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’ve said in press conferences that it’s a symmetric objective and we have a balanced approach, and so on.  Anyone else. [No response] All right. Now we come to the main event. Let’s start our economic go-round with President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply describing a discussion or conversation taking place. There is no clear contention or disagreement presented.


Passage number 138.
 MR. LACKER. New York.  I forgot New York.  And there are others around the System.  I know that Atlanta operates a pretty elaborate model as well.  So each of these taken to the data would give you a different estimate of the gap, and they’d give you a different decomposition of what the gap was about.  We’d be able to look at those, if we had them in front of us, and say, “Well, attributing the gap to this is persuasive to me.  It matches up with what I think is out there,” or, “This reason for the gap to be large isn’t persuasive to me.”  And we could have a discussion that goes beyond, “I think the gap is big.” “No, I think the gap is small.”  “No, I think the gap is big.” “No, I think the gap is small.” I think we could make progress by putting the cards on the table, by putting some more-explicit analysis on the table. So that’s my suggestion for improving our discussion of the gap going forward.  As I said, the estimates of the 3 percent gap in EDO seem implausible to me compared with factors that I’ve talked about that are likely to affect the natural rate rather than the gap—things like the labor market, skill problems, the housing overhang, and policy uncertainty, which aren’t captured by the models.  We could have a debate then about what is in the model or not.  This is what goes into my thinking—that we shouldn’t expect much from monetary policy now.   Moreover, we might be pretty close to where the policy-relevant natural rate is right now.  Thank you—I took some extra time here.  I appreciate it.  Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is suggesting that different models and analyses could provide different estimates and decompositions of the gap, and that discussing these different perspectives could lead to progress in understanding and addressing the issue. The speaker also shares their own perspective and reasoning for their belief that the estimates of the 3 percent gap seem implausible to them.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 139.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I don’t really understand why the DSGE model should be particularly relevant to the current set of circumstances, given that this is a financial shock, a huge financial shock, and my understanding is that DGSE models are very rudimentary, if they have anything, in terms of the financial sector.  To go to the DSGE models as a source of determining the natural rate versus the NAIRU and the size of the gap seems a little bit “off the reservation” relative to the source of the shock.  So I’m just curious what your reaction is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The author expresses skepticism and disagreement with using DSGE models to understand the current financial shock. They question the relevance and effectiveness of these models in capturing the intricacies of the financial sector.


Passage number 140.
 MR. LACKER.  Sure.  Let me say two things to that.  The first is that progress has been made in putting the rudiments of a financial sector in these models.  The New York model is a leader on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that progress has been made in including the financial sector in the models.


Passage number 141.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But we’re still in elementary school.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement is a simple fact and does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 142.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  The second thing I’d point out, though, is that if we’re going to think about the data we see, draw conclusions, and act on it, we’re using either an explicit model or an implicit model.  There’s no avoiding that.  Otherwise, what we’re doing is gibberish.  An explicit model has the advantage of exposing all sides of the reasoning process to scrutiny by others.  You can say, and it’s perfectly legitimate to think, “All right—yes, this factor that I think is important is not in this model,” and I just did that with EDO.  I just said, “Look, it doesn’t have a very articulate labor sector”—but we can debate that, and we can look at the magnitudes and talk about that.  So I think it’s a vehicle for analysis and discussion that crystallizes our thinking, that pins things down, but I don’t think it’s constructive to say, “X isn’t in the model.  I  have a free pass to say whatever I want.” I just don’t think that’s constructive.  I know that’s not what you were advocating. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the importance of using either an explicit or implicit model in analyzing data and drawing conclusions. They acknowledge the advantage of an explicit model in exposing all reasoning to scrutiny and promote constructive analysis and discussion. There is no contention between the speaker and anyone else in the passage.


Passage number 143.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Thank you, President Lacker.  You’re a perfect straight man for me because I’m going to be rather brief [laughter] to preserve time for the main event. Reports from my District contacts were very little changed from August. Economic expansion remains positive but very modest.  Just a couple of comments from contacts.  First, housing-sector contacts and several of my banking directors reported that residential real estate activity in general is clearly improving.  Prices have firmed in many areas, sales volume has increased, and permitting is rising.  Purchase mortgage applications have increased recently, and refinance activity remains positive. I have also seen data suggesting that the recent increase in purchases is being driven primarily by mortgage-financed homebuyers rather than cash investors.  Second, a director from a large management consulting firm offered the view that a number of his firms, very large corporate clients, have resigned themselves to a 2 percent growth world, and that major actions these businesses might take to accelerate their growth are largely on hold.  We heard a similar theme from several contacts.  And, third, inflation and rising business costs are not much of a concern among our contacts.  My director from the country’s largest home-improvement retailer reported that suppliers are not asking for price increases in this environment. Let me shift to my Bank’s assessment of the national economy and outlook.  It has become pretty difficult, in my view, to reject the view that the economy has been on a roughly 2 percent growth trend for most of the recovery.  Maybe I’m a little slow, but the recognition has gelled in my thinking, just in the last few weeks, that this is the prevailing reality.  Based on recent estimates, this may even overstate the immediate reality.  My outlook for GDP growth continues to show only modest improvement on this trend over the forecast horizon.  In particular, beyond this year and next, I remain less optimistic about the pace of GDP growth than the Tealbook.  With respect to employment, my baseline outlook has been a continuation of the trend of roughly 150,000 per month that has prevailed over the past two years.  This pace would be sufficient at current participation rates to make continuing but modest progress on the unemployment rate. However, last week’s job report makes it pretty clear that employment growth has fallen short of the 150,000 trend over the past four months.  Even though four months amount to a small sliver of time, I am concerned about the lack of any sustained progress on the unemployment rate since the beginning of the year.  It is getting harder to rule out the possibility that returning to the scenario of 150,000 jobs a month is at risk.  My perception is that the well-known uncertainty factors, including those associated with various downside risks, are contributing to some of the recent softness in the data.  I have no argument with the SEP bias that GDP growth risks are weighted to the downside, but I don’t rule out that these uncertainty drags could dissipate and that there is some upside potential.  For instance, some of the incoming information around housing and Europe has been mildly encouraging, and it’s plausible that if the major sources of uncertainty—notably, the fiscal cliff and European situation—are resolved favorably, or more or less favorably, in a few months, the outlook actually could be brighter.  So it strikes me that this environment is not as clear-cut as the situations that we faced on the cusp of LSAP1 and LSAP2. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Mr. Wilcox, did you want to add to the conversation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 144.
MR. WILCOX.  Yes. I don’t have a detailed response to President Lacker’s comments, but I thought I might just offer a few observations.  Sometimes I’m in sympathy with many of the points that President Lacker makes.  I think it’s important, though, to state that we take it as our remit to advise the Committee to the limit of our ability to measure the economy, to estimate and understand the economy, to observe economic processes.  We think it’s critically important not to do more than that, and we’re profoundly aware of the extent of our ignorance and the ignorance of the macroeconomic profession at large, regarding key questions about how the macroeconomy works. I’m reminded of a comment that Larry Summers once made in quite a different situation, in which he said, “You know, economics is an interesting field.  I doubt that when astrophysicists get together, they debate the fundamental validity of the laws of gravity.  And yet what we as economists do is, we have profound uncertainty about questions that are as fundamental as the laws of gravity.”  We on the staff do make every effort to distinguish short-run influences that we can identify.  For example, we have adjusted our reference level of the unemployment rate in light of influences that we can identify and estimate, stemming from emergency unemployment benefits and from the quality of functioning of the labor market.  We have adjusted our measure of the gap between the actual unemployment rate and the reference, or natural, rate of unemployment for those kinds of things.  But beyond that, we confront the real world in which data are imperfect, theory is deficient, policymaker and staff bandwidth is limited, and there are a lot of profound and fundamental debates to be resolved. With regard to EDO, it is a state-of-the-art DSGE model coming directly out of the intellectual tradition that President Lacker refers to. It’s part, but only part, of the intellectual base that we consult in the course of putting together our analysis that we provide to the Committee.  Now, whether the empirical properties of that model are plausible or implausible is a little difficult for me to say.  They are what they are, and they’re derived by an effort to work directly in that intellectual tradition.  We have pursued a diversified, multimodel strategy, which we think provides our analysis with a greater robustness than would be the case if we had a single model or a single-intellectual-tradition strategy. So I’m in sympathy with many of the points that President Lacker raises, but I think we need to recognize that the macroeconomic profession has a long way to go before we can deliver the kind of clarity and certainty that it seems to me is implicit in much of your remarks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In this passage, there is contention or disagreement. Mr. Wilcox acknowledges that he is in sympathy with many of the points that President Lacker makes but also states that the macroeconomic profession has a long way to go before it can provide clarity and certainty. This suggests a disagreement or difference of opinion on the current state and capabilities of macroeconomics.


Passage number 145.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The past nine months remind me a bit of Samuel Beckett’s play Waiting for Godot. Rather than waiting for Godot, we are waiting for the labor market recovery.  And like Godot, the recovery in the labor market continues to elude us.  In the Beckett play, the characters seriously consider suicide as their best solution to the seemingly endless wait.  I do hope that tomorrow we arrive at a better solution.  [Laughter] Unfortunately, last month’s labor market report was quite consistent with my submission for the experimental consensus forecast.  I had a more pessimistic outlook for the next 18 months than the consensus forecast, and it assumed that we would not see robust employment growth or a significant change in the unemployment rate by the end of the year—or, for that matter, the end of next year—without further accommodation.  The modest employment growth did not surprise me, although I may not have sufficiently considered the possibility of the further declines in the labor force participation rate that were a striking feature of last Friday’s employment report, reducing the unemployment rate but for the wrong reason.  One of the distinctive features of this recession and recovery has been the percentage of the unemployed who remain unemployed for greater than 26 weeks.  Unlike the deep recession in 1982, in which there was a quick recovery and, as a result, a relatively small increase in long-duration unemployment, this recession has had a weak recovery, resulting in more long-duration unemployment.  Work being done by the staff in Boston that decomposes the Beveridge curve by duration of unemployment finds that the shift in the curve is primarily generated by workers who suffer long-duration unemployment.  Faster growth in the economy would likely mitigate some of this problem. While some have attributed the slow recovery to a deleveraging process, I would put less weight on that argument.  Consumption and business investment have not been the laggards in this recovery.  Rather, government spending and housing account for much of the unusual weakness.  In fact, if you exclude housing and government spending from GDP for this recovery, it looks much like the previous two recoveries.  The unusually weak government spending is, in part, a result of the state and local governments pulling back in response to greatly diminished revenues, a direct consequence of the depth of the recession and the weakness of the recovery.  Many were prepared for a revenue shortfall, with funds accumulated in their rainy day funds, but this recession quickly put most rainy day funds underwater.  Housing is usually a driver of most recoveries but has been absent for much of this recovery.  However, since the onset of the housing bust, the population has grown, per capita income has grown, interest rates are low, and prices are more affordable, resulting in tentative signs of a housing recovery.  This is a propitious time for considering additional stimulus to housing. If homebuyers feel that house prices are on the rise—as many indicators suggest and the Tealbook forecasts—and that mortgage rates will remain this low only temporarily, we may start to get new homebuyers to commit before rates and prices rise. It is important to note the significant downside risks we are still facing.  While there have been some positive announcements about financial support out of Europe, the underlyingsolutions still require political support.  Domestically, while most are aware of the dangers of a fiscal cliff, the positive solutions still require political action.  Should either of these risks materialize, we will need to consider a further array of tools:  possibly expanding QE even further, using asset purchases to target long rates, or providing more commitment in our guidance.  An important addition to these tools might also be an expanded set of discount window actions.  The staff memo on this provides a good road map to possible ways forward.  They include a variant of the Bank of England program, a mortgage program that would provide low-cost funding for banks to finance mortgage loans—particularly to those parts of the mortgage market that have been slow to recover, and programs that might require Treasury support to reduce the credit risk entailed on certain types of lending.  While some of these tools are likely to be most useful during a crisis where lending markets are disrupted, some could be implemented even in the current rate environment. I would encourage the staff to continue to search for creative ways that we can support those areas of the economy that are still troubled.  As further progress is made, it may be worth discussing, either as an additional tool if the recovery continues to be quite slow or as a contingency plan should some of the tail risks materialize.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of the speaker's observations and analysis of the labor market recovery and potential policy options.


Passage number 146.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, just as President Lacker was a straight man for President Lockhart, in a way, President Plosser has been a straight man for me.  Like President Pianalto, I will interlocutate [laughter] more tomorrow than I plan to do today. President Williams made a very important point. He talked about how uncertainty has paralyzed most businesses and how uncertainty acts as an aggregate demand shock.  I agree with that analysis. I hear that from my contacts.  The question is, is monetary policy effective in offsetting this form of uncertainty.  President George mentioned the National Federation of Independent Business.  She cited some data.  What she did not cite was that 93 percent of that sample makes clear that they do not wish to borrow, either because of uncertainty or because they have access to capital that’s abundant and cheap.  In my own surveys as preparation for this meeting, I asked a simple question: If the actions we were to take at this upcoming meeting were to reduce your cost of capital by 25 basis points or more, what would it do in terms of your investment plans. I deliberately sampled larger companies because that’s where cap-ex comes from.  Employment comes from small and medium-sized businesses.  We assume that, just by sheer weight of numbers, significant cap-ex comes from large corporations.  And I would say that 9 out of 10 said it would not change their investment plans, even if we took action that led to a reduction of 1 percent or more in their cost of capital.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of the speaker discussing various points made by other individuals and giving their own agreement and supporting information.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 147.
VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  First, I want to make a comment on President Fisher’s last remark.  My understanding is that capital spending has never been particularly interest rate sensitive.  It’s really driven by demand and capacity utilization, things of that nature.  So I wouldn’t expect that to be a really strong channel by which monetary policy stimulates the economy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. The speaker disagrees with President Fisher's remark, stating that capital spending is not particularly interest rate sensitive but instead driven by demand and capacity utilization.


Passage number 148.
 MR. FISHER.  Can I just make a point to that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher simply asks if he can make a point.


Passage number 149.
 MR. FISHER.  At least in the drafts of our statement, we were saying that business fixed investment was weak.  The question is, are we affecting business fixed investment.  And, more important than that, are we affecting employment. My point is that in the responses I’m getting to anecdotal inquiry—not systematically organized, although the systematic surveys that we see, through the NFIB and others, show that it is questionable whether or not we are actually affecting employment.  The question is, are we affecting employment over the short term or the long term.  We have a wealth effect.  The Chairman has made that a very strong argument, including at the last meeting. If you’re advising a corporation about what to do with the savings that they can achieve through cheaper capital, they can invest it in greater plant or equipment expansion, they can buy back their stock, or they can increase their dividends.  And I would argue that the former would have a more immediate impact on employment creation than the latter. Excuse me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing different perspectives and considerations regarding the impact of business fixed investment on employment.


Passage number 150.
 MR. FISHER.  We’re going to hold you to that. MS. RASKIN.  Ship them to Betsy’s house.  [Laughter] MS. DUKE.  To me, this represents the one area of dry tinder in the economy that could be lit with a spark of confidence.  To be sure, mortgage lending conditions are still extremely tight, but some recent developments should help.  The specter of putback risk has reportedly been holding back loans to borrowers at the lower end of GSE standards.  The FHFA has now committed to reducing putback risk beginning in January 2013 through better front-end quality control and time limits on liability.  With house prices on the rise, fewer loans should fall through because of appraisal issues.  Regulatory uncertainty should clear, as new regulatory   requirements for loan origination, securitization, and servicing are likely to be finalized in the coming months. Probably the biggest drag on lending is the shrinkage of loan origination capacity.  The industry is showing signs of strain in what looks to be only a trillion-dollar origination year, compared with a peak origination of $3 trillion not that many years ago. But if high profits are the best fertilizer, we should see more banks entering the business.  I want to investigate actual data, but anecdotally, the bankers I spoke with this time who were in the mortgage business were actually having record profits, while those who weren’t in mortgage origination were wondering about their survival.  I’m talking about the difference between a range of 0.5 to 0.6 ROA, for those with no mortgage business, versus one of 1.30 to 1.50, for those with a mortgage business.  So, for all of these reasons, I think there’s a lot of meat left on the house price and housing finance bone, and I’m optimistic about that part of the forecast.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Ms. Duke, is expressing her optimism about the housing market and the potential for increased lending. There is no opposing viewpoint presented.


Passage number 151.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Because John captured my views on the economic outlook, I’m going to jettison most of what I would have said.  In fact, I think John captured my views better than I had captured my views.  So I thought I’d turn back to labor markets, moved by some of Charlie Plosser’s comments.  The first comment I’d make is that it’s important to distinguish between cyclical labor market conditions and longer-term labor market issues.  I don’t think there’s any doubt that we’ve got some chronic labor market issues in the United States.  There’s been evidence of declining dynamism in U.S. labor markets for well over a decade.  There certainly is a substantial sense that people currently taking lower-income service-sector jobs—if they had better education and training—would be available for jobs that might then be created with higher value added. What Charlie referred to as polarization isundoubtedly true, but again, a chronic issue rather than a cyclical one.  I actually think that unlike so many other questions, there’s been a substantial convergence of views—not entirely, but a substantial convergence of views—around the proposition that a relatively small portion of the big jump in unemployment that we’ve seen is attributable to structural factors. There’s been, as you all know, substantial, good, and careful work from the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, New York, and San Francisco over the past several years that has supported that conclusion.  And I think among academic researchers, the convergence is also manifesting itself, as shown most recently in Ed Lazear’s paper at Jackson Hole, following on, by about five months, Jesse Rothstein’s paper, which surveyed much of the same material and came to many of the same conclusions. Jeff, at the last meeting, suggested that a paper done by Richmond Fed research staff was a dissonant voice on this basic proposition that structural unemployment was not a big part of the story.  This paper, of course, starts from a very different perspective on long-term unemployment than the literature I just referred to a moment ago.  The Richmond Fed paper argues that an unobserved heterogeneity among unemployed workers means that newly unemployed workers have inherently different exit rates, and that over time, the composition of the pool of the unemployed shifts toward workers who started with the lower exit rates.  I looked at the paper after Jeff talked about it at the last meeting, and I spoke with others here at the Board about it, and I actually don’t think it establishes a case for structural unemployment.  There are a lot of empirical and technical questions about the paper—it’s certainly interesting and may well have significant merit—but I actually don’t think it’s making a structural argument, at least not if we think of “structural” as referring to nontransitory unemployment that can’t be affected fairly directly by fluctuations in aggregate demand.  It would be unsurprising to learn that firms are   more likely to lay off relatively less-valued employees whose lesser perceived abilities may mean that they’re less likely to be quickly plucked up by a firm that is hiring.  That phenomenon is entirely consistent with a demand-driven increase in unemployment.  More generally, the Richmond Fed model attempts to decompose the variation in the pool of the unemployed over time.  So it addresses the reasons for fluctuations in unemployment over history—in recessions, but also in recoveries.  The reasons for unemployment increases also explain the reversals that take place during recoveries.  That is, as there are fewer unemployed, firms cannot afford to be as demanding and thus are more likely to turn to the pool of the supposedly less valuable workers. This seems, to me at least, more a cyclical than a structural explanation, and thus, again, whatever the ultimate merits of the paper, I don’t think it really undercuts the consensus reached in the papers to which I referred earlier. One final thought on structural unemployment, and this relates a bit to what Janet was saying a moment ago.  The Richmond paper describes something as the “true duration dependence” position, as opposed to the “unobserved heterogeneity” position that it takes.  The true duration dependence position is that, quite apart from any inherent worker qualities, the bad luck of being unemployed for an extended period will itself begin to erode the overall employability of enough workers that there will be macroeconomic effects. As Janet said, historically, we haven’t seen much evidence of this in the United States, though many, myself included, have thought that the severity and duration of the current employment problem could produce some observable hysteresis effects this time around.  Logically, one would think that at some point these effects would manifest themselves.  But I have to say, to date, there still isn’t much indication of any such effects.  And indeed, I think if one looks at what’s been happening to long-term unemployed, you might say there’s actually been a little bit of an improvement intheir performance, which would suggest that we’re not sliding closer toward hysteresis, but that, once again, for reasons not entirely understood, the U.S. labor market seems relatively insulated from those effects. But again, as Janet said, basically, whether you believe that hysteresis is around the corner or not doesn’t change your policy prescription.  If you think that it hasn’t clicked in to date but it might, that’s an argument for greater stimulus now in order to stop it from happening.  If you think that there’s unlikely to be hysteresis and thus the cyclical explanation dominates, then obviously the unemployment should be susceptible to increased aggregate demand stimulus.  So, in that sense, I think these arguments happily converge around the same policy prescription.  And for me, this all, again, reinforces the view that the story of the economy is still one of inadequate aggregate demand.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is acknowledging that his views on the economic outlook are in agreement with another person's views and also mentions the convergence of views on the issue of structural unemployment. The speaker also discusses the different perspectives presented in the Richmond Fed paper but does not express disagreement with it. Ultimately, the speaker concludes that regardless of whether hysteresis is a concern or not, the policy prescription remains the same.


Passage number 152.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply addressing the chairman and introducing themselves as President Lacker.


Passage number 153.
 MR. LACKER.  First, I’d like to thank Governor Tarullo for reading the Richmond Fed paper.  Second, I’d like to point out that—in terms of the distinction I was making before between what the unemployment rate would converge to in the long run and the reference rate that’s relevant for current policy—a shock that hits the economy today, if it’s a structural shock that’s permanent and long lived, it is going to affect the longer-term normal rate of unemployment. But whether it’s permanent or transitory is irrelevant for whether it affects the policy-relevant rate today.  See what I’m saying. It doesn’t matter if it fades out right away or if it’s going to last a long time. It could affect the policy-relevant rate today either way. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  How does that handle policy lags.  Monetary policy doesn’t work for a while.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is making a point about the distinction between the long-term normal rate of unemployment and the policy-relevant rate, and is clarifying that whether a shock is permanent or transitory does not impact its effect on the policy-relevant rate.


Passage number 154.
  MR. LACKER.  I think that’s orthogonal.  I think that’s tangential to this question.  In the models, you’ve got policy lags.  Policy takes effect over time, but it’s still the case that you’re carrying around this reference rate—President Bullard talked about a flex price equilibrium— and it’s affected by both transitory and permanent shocks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My outlook has not changed materially since the July–August meeting.  Maybe incoming data have been mixed, but forward-looking indicators still remain consistent with an economy growing in the near term in a range between 1½ percent and 2 percent. Similarly, the factors shaping the medium-term outlook have not changed significantly; the general contours of my outlook remain the same.  Yes, some of the incoming data during the intermeeting period suggested modest increases in household spending and employment, and the household sector showed some further slight signs of improvement.  But no data are yet showing a basis to believe that these modest increases will be sustained to such an extent that faster momentum might be expected.  Indeed, other data, such as those for business spending and consumer confidence, remain soft.  It is not yet obvious that this path, or even a couple of months of stronger-than-expected economic activity, could reduce the amount of slack in labor markets or alter the trajectory of expected inflation to a degree that would obviate the need for a further easing of monetary policy.  Last week’s employment report— payroll employment only 55,000 higher than reported in July, after taking into account revisions—does not suggest above-trend economic growth or a declining trend in the unemployment rate.  It suggests, instead, that the unemployment rate is likely to move sideways with no sign of a substantial and sustainable strengthening in the pace of economic recovery.  And this unsatisfactory modal projection is what exists before even considering downside risks to the outlook.  One particular downside risk that remains quite elevated relates to what we’ve been talking about—the depressed level of labor participation and the enhanced level of long-term unemployment. The decline in the labor force participation rate since the beginning of the recession is ominous, and although the Board staff predicts that over the next couple of years the labor force participation rate will flatten out, the recession, as Governor Yellen described, may well have permanent effects on the labor force participation rate, just as the high-pressure labor market of the late 1990s pulled people back into the labor force who had been excluded for a long time—only now, unfortunately, in reverse. In addition, with a substantial and growing proportion of unemployed workers having been jobless for long periods, we face an elevated risk that such a high level of long-term unemployment will persist long enough to permanently depress labor supply and potential output.  Unlike downside risks emanating from the European crisis and U.S. fiscal policy—which, were they to occur, theoretically can be addressed with accommodative monetary policy after the fact—the potential hysteresis created by drops in the labor force participation rate and increases in long-term unemployment will prove intractable to address with accommodative monetary policy that isn’t inflationary.  So I find the particular downside risk of hysteresis to be especially pernicious because it’s difficult to address after the fact. But, more optimistically, it is one downside risk that monetary policymakers do have some ability to mitigate prior to its occurrence. Similarly, I wonder about the permanent or transitory nature of household and business expectations.  The economic outlook appears damped by some form of pessimism.  Look at the Michigan survey question on the proportion of households expecting unemployment to improve.  Earlier this year, that number had recovered, but now it has dropped down again.  Similarly,   households’ income expectations for the coming 12 months have hardly recovered at all since the recession despite the fact that actual income has somewhat increased.  On the business side, expectations for business conditions six months hence as measured in the Empire State and Philadelphia Fed surveys have dropped back sharply again.  In the case of the Empire State survey, they’re back close to levels seen during the recession.  Capital spending plans also don’t look great.  Surveys from the National Association for Business Economics show capital spending to have dropped sharply in the second quarter.  Surveys from the National Federation of Independent Business show capital spending to be gradually rising, but still remaining at less than half of its pre-recession level. It’s difficult to project whether these expectations will transition from being temporary blips to permanent shifts, but the fact that these expectations have tried to recover from the recession before but been knocked back, sometimes more than once, might be a factor that could keep households and businesses from getting too hopeful again. The longer we have an economy that looks bleak as far as the eye can see, the more this bleakness gets built into expectations.  Households and businesses now see a recovery slow to materialize.  They assume that things will get better because they always have, but then things don’t get better.  So households and businesses start to wonder if this is just a delay or if it’s just the new normal.  If they think it’s the new normal, it could become just that.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of two separate sections: one where Mr. Lacker discusses policy lags and the effects of transitory and permanent shocks, and another where Governor Raskin gives her outlook on the economy and discusses potential downside risks. Both sections offer different perspectives and analysis, but there is no direct contention or disagreement between the two speakers.


Passage number 155.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  In terms of the outlook, I’m reasonably close to the consensus forecast you put forth, and just a shade more upbeat than I was at our last meeting—that is to say, maybe a tenth or two lower on the unemployment rate for 2013. I’ve interpreted the incoming data since the last meeting inclusive of the jobs report on Friday as approximately a wash and feel as though the situation in Europe looks just a bit brighter.  So,overall, I would say it appears we’re still about as “stuck in the mud” as we have been over the last several months, and I agree with Governor Tarullo’s characterization that it’s largely an aggregate demand phenomenon. In trying to think about the factors that are leading demand to be so sluggish and about the channels by which monetary policy might be able to help, I’ve been struck by a few pieces of survey evidence.  Now, they turn out to be the same pieces of survey evidence that Governor Raskin was just referring to, thereby scooping a fair portion of what I was going to say. MS. RASKIN.  It happened to me for a long time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

In this passage, Mr. Stein is expressing his agreement with the consensus forecast and his slightly more positive outlook on the unemployment rate. He also agrees with Governor Tarullo's characterization of the situation as an aggregate demand phenomenon. While he mentions that Governor Raskin has already mentioned some survey evidence, there is no disagreement or contention between them.


Passage number 156.
  [Laughter] MR. STEIN.  I’m going to just start juggling next time. Anyway, just to underscore, really—on the Michigan survey, we had a very interesting briefing a few weeks ago by Claudia Sahm, in Research and Statistics, who’d been looking carefully at these data.  And the gist of the finding is, not only is it low, but also, basically, it fell from 2007 to 2009, and it really hasn’t recovered since.  Moreover, it’s not well explained by household characteristics—there’s a large negative residual there in a way that seems different from previous experience. In a similar vein but much less scientifically, I looked at a different survey, the Conference Board’s Consumer Confidence Index, which also fell in August.  Very much to your point, they do a breakdown of the index into views of the current situation—a present situation index—and a future expectations piece, and all of the drop was coming from the future expectations piece.  So I was curious.  I went back and compared it with previous peaks of unemployment that we’ve had.  The ones I looked at were May 1975 and December 1982.  What you see is, at those times when unemployment was also very high, if you asked people about the present situation, it was dismal, but if you asked them about future expectations, it was not nearly so bad as it is today.  These are just a couple of data points, but they’re consistent with what I take to be the spirit of Claudia’s  work, which is, it’s as if, given where we are today and given the current situation, people feel the future is considerably more pessimistic.  And again, I think this is pessimism as opposed to uncertainty, which has a slightly different implication because it’s less clear that, if the fiscal cliff resolves itself, this kind of thing gets fixed. Another survey on the business side: I just yesterday got a survey that Duke University does in conjunction with CFO magazine, where they talk to 900 CFOs of U.S. firms.  One of the new questions in there this time—I think, actually, Steve Sharpe helped them design this question—asked the firms if they would in any way change their capital spending plans for a given change in interest rates.  Here, it is strikingly like a large-sample version of President Fisher’s CEO conversations, where only 3 percent of the firms say they would in any way change their capital spending for a 50 basis point movement in rates.  Now, I take Vice Chairman Dudley’s critique here.  First of all, in this one, unlike consumer confidence, we don’t have a benchmark, so I don’t know what people would say in normal times.  But as a Bayesian, I’m inclined to think that there’s something going on here, even though I wouldn’t say it’s a huge thing. So, putting this together—now, this part is very impressionistic, but I guess the overall feeling I get from looking at these various pieces of survey evidence is the sense that when we make a policy move now, we’re playing more for whatever effect we can have on consumer and business confidence than for the normal hydraulic effect we would have on financing conditions per se.  That is to say, we may know more about how to move interest rates than about how to influence confidence, but it’s the latter that, in some sense, is the dragging anchor.  This is not an “always” situation.  I think it’s, in some respects, the opposite of where we were in 2009 at the  time of QE1, when really the thing to do, the imperative, was to fix financing conditions, and people would figure it out one way or the other. I don’t know if this has any implications for policy. It strikes me that, if this is right, it should color particularly how we think about the communications aspect.  I, like many others here, believe that the need for action is clear, but I think, less so than usual, the bond market is not really our primary audience.  So maybe when we think about policy, we want to worry less about putting together the biggest, most inclusive package that has the maximum bond market impact, and worry more about, how do we deliver a simple and coherent message that normal humans can understand, as opposed to mainly Fed watchers.  I think we’ll have a chance to talk about some of these issues.  I’m not sure if this concept is fully operational, but I have this conviction that we really have to think about our audience as being business managers and households—more so than at other times.  There’s so much talk about, what are the Fed watchers expecting us to do.  And I think we don’t want to get overly caught up in delivering just to them.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage contains information and analysis, but there is no evident contention or disagreement.


Passage number 157.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Could I ask the Governor a question.  Geographically, do they express any preferences about where they want to have the business.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The first sentence is a question asking for permission to ask a question, and the second sentence is asking whether there are any geographical preferences for the location of a business. The two sentences do not contradict each other or indicate any disagreement.


Passage number 158.
 MR. POWELL.  Yes.  The hedge funds are, as a staff memo from Matt and Fabio pointed out, unanimously not believing a long-run solution in Europe.  They’re just very pessimistic.  I   would say the private equity firms are in the same place.  You see very little private equity interest in Europe.  There’s great uncertainty and that kind of thing.  In the United States, you see a lot of activity—again, restrained only by a lack of supply.  When there’s a good company that’s out there, the bidding is furious, and they’re all saying, “This is the time.”  This happened 10 years ago. And Asia—I can’t really give you any call on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is one person stating their observation and opinion on the views of hedge funds and private equity firms regarding Europe, as well as their observations on activity in the United States and Asia.


Passage number 159.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Thanks for those remarks.  I found them very useful in my own thinking.  I, too, thought the staff’s work on LSAPs over the last couple of intermeeting periods has been really helpful, but even more broadly, I certainly came to the question of the efficacy of the LSAPs from the same Modigliani–Miller framework that Mike sketched, and I found the empirical work on the asset pricing side very informative.  It certainly shaped my thinking moving away from the Modigliani–Miller framework. Our statements, alternative A and alternative B, make reference to continuing to study the efficacy of the LSAPs.  Part of that will have to be ongoing work and ongoing study of that linkage betweenwhat’s going on in the financial markets and how that’s getting through to the real economy.  At least for me, that’s a major source of uncertainty still. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Let me make one comment on that, which is, you sometimes hear the following kind of statement:  “Tight monetary policy is not causing the problem; therefore, easing monetary policy won’t help.”  That’s a non sequitur.  If, say, tight fiscal policy is the problem, if that’s the reason the economy is growing slowly, it doesn’t mean that monetary policy can’t mitigate that.  So I think that kind of argument needs to be looked at very carefully.  We are doing a lot.  We are absolutely doing a lot.  There’s no question about it.  Nobody can blame the Federal Reserve fairly, in my opinion, for being tightfisted and stingy and not willing to take risks to try to support the economy.  But the fact that it’s not our fault that the recovery is slow doesn’t mean that we can’t try to help if we think, in fact, that the benefit–cost ratio is appropriate. What I’d like to do is let Bill English do his introductory remarks for tomorrow.  I’m in your hands.  The reception starts at 5:30.  Would people like to continue with the policy round, or should we just have Bill and then start fresh at 8:30. PARTICIPANT. Break. PARTICIPANTS.  Fresh. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Fresh.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating their own perspective on the efficacy of LSAPs and the role of monetary policy in supporting the economy. There is no conflicting viewpoint presented.


Passage number 160.
 MR. FISHER.  Governor Powell needs to take a nap. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  He’s not the only one.  [Laughter] All right.  We’ll ask Bill to make his opening presentation and take any questions, and then we’ll recess for reception and dinner.  Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 161.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, if I could ask Simon and the Desk—again, just to have a factual grip here:  What kind of market penetration will we have on mortgage-backed securities under the program of $30 and $40 billion per month.  You mentioned this earlier.  I apologize.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It consists of a question regarding market penetration of mortgage-backed securities.


Passage number 162.
 MR. POTTER. That’s the flow rate relative to gross issuance.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of fact about the flow rate relative to gross issuance.


Passage number 163.
 MR. FISHER.  Yes, sir.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher simply responds affirmatively to the statement or question, without expressing any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 164.
 MR. POTTER. If we’re about one-third right now, if we added $30 billion, we’d be about 60 percent; at $40 billion, we’re about 70 percent.  But in terms of the stock, I think that would—what was that, Lorie. MS. LOGAN.  I don’t have the exact numbers for the particular scenarios, but the stock would be 25 percent under the $30-billion-per-month pace, and it would be slightly higher under $40 billion per month. I don’t have that exact number, and it depends on the length, but just for a maximum, under the $2 trillion scenario that we had run, the maximum was 36 percent.  So that gives you the very upper bound.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Potter and Ms. Logan are providing different calculations and scenarios, but there is no indication of disagreement or conflict between them.


Passage number 165.
 MR. FISHER.  And if we assume that we finish the MEP at year-end, what will be our duration.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of fact or a hypothetical scenario being discussed.


Passage number 166.
  MR. POTTER.  The duration will be eight years, but we’ll own quite large amounts of some of the longer-duration securities.  That’s in the Treasury part of the portfolio.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 167.
 MR. FISHER.  And of some of the particular issues, we have significant—above 70 percent.  Is that correct now. MS. LOGAN. We’ve a 70 percent per CUSIP cap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply a statement of fact about a 70 percent per CUSIP cap.


Passage number 168.
  So we can’t buy any— MR. FISHER.  That’s our cap per CUSIP. MS. LOGAN.  That’s the cap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher is simply providing clarification or agreement to what Ms. Logan said. There is no indication of an argument or disagreement between them.


Passage number 169.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. MS. LOGAN.  We’ve only hit the cap on ten issues, I think—the number that we’ve hit the maximum 70 percent on.  And most of those were old bonds in very small size.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents information about reaching the cap on certain issues.


Passage number 170.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you very much. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing gratitude by saying "Thank you very much" and indicating that there may be additional questions for President Bullard.


Passage number 171.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Bill, I just wanted to clarify since we have a few minutes here.  When we do this on page 1 here, there are three lines, and then alternative B has a couple of options in it.  Are you saying that this is a rough guide to what alternative B would deliver.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple request for clarification.


Passage number 172.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states that Mr. English, presumably a person, exists or is present. It does not indicate any form of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 173.
 MR. BULLARD. Or do you feel as though it wouldn’t make too much difference which option is chosen within the subgroups that are proposed.  Or is it just that it’d get too cluttered.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard is asking a question to understand the speaker's perspective on the matter.


Passage number 174.
 MR. ENGLISH. What we tried to do here was write down something that seemed plausibly in line with alternative B. Alternative B has a couple of different choices that the Committee would have to make.  One is, later on, what do you do in a few months after you’ve observed the economy.  Do you continue purchasing into next year. We’ve assumed that youcontinue purchasing for about, I think, seven months in this.  And then the other question is, what do you do with the forward guidance. We’ve assumed, basically, that the forward guidance goes out to mid-2015 and is compelling—everybody believes it.  It’s possible, as I mentioned, that because market participants’ sense of the outlook is a bit weaker than our sense of the outlook, they may read that 6½ percent unemployment rate as pushing the liftoff even later.  If that were picked up, then you’d get a little bit more impetus to the economy out of that, but we’ve not modeled that here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing different choices and assumptions made by the Committee.


Passage number 175.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  And the other thing—I’ve been concerned about the withering of alternative C here.  Alternative C isn’t mentioned in the graphs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses their concern and mentions that alternative C is not mentioned in the graphs, but there is no direct argument or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 176.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Alternative C would be, as long as you left the liftoff date unchanged, pretty similar to the consensus forecast.  What I’m taking out of that is the sense in the words in alternative C that might hint that things could move more quickly than that. So the straight consensus forecast is no change in the forward guidance, no additional purchases beyond the end of the year.  That broadly is consistent with alternative C but maybe doesn’t quite get the sense of what the words in alternative C could mean to market participants.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes

Explanation: There is contention or disagreement implied in the passage as Mr. English suggests that Alternative C may give a different sense than the consensus forecast and may have different implications for market participants.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 177.
 MR. BULLARD.  Well, when you describe it, you say, “Markets would be surprised.”  I think that’s accurate—they’d be very surprised by a statement like that—and that you probably would have some effect.  Plus, if we were going in that direction, which I guess we’re not, you’d have the possibility of moving up the date of liftoff.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, disagrees with the idea that markets would not be surprised by a certain statement and argues that they would indeed be very surprised.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 178.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage includes dialogue between two individuals, suggesting that they may have differing opinions or perspectives.


Passage number 179.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. One important point here:  The black line—the consensus forecast—implicitly has in it a significant disappointment for the market because they pull back their expectations for liftoff to late 2014, and they remove their expectations of any further expansion of the portfolio.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is describing the consensus forecast and its implications for the market. There is no contention or disagreement being expressed.


Passage number 180.
 MR. BULLARD.  I see.  So I should read this as “Consensus forecast/alternative C.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 181.
” MR. ENGLISH.  Roughly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The use of the word "roughly" suggests that there may be disagreement or uncertainty about the accuracy or precision of the information being discussed.


Passage number 182.
 MR. BULLARD.  Roughly speaking.  Well, I guess, Mr. Chairman, I have a concern whether we have three options that are live options.  And I think it’s been hard while the Committee has been trying to think about ways to ease, and when the Committee shifts in the other direction, the same thing will happen.  But I think you want to have some things that are a little bit tighter, a little bit easier, and might actually have a chance of— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We circulate this and ask whether it spans the range of views so, of course, we always welcome suggestions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 183.
 MR. BULLARD. Well, it’s up to you.  But if you try to span the range of views, you might have to put something on the table that’s not going to be adopted.  But from my point of view, I’d like to see three live things that we could do and things that we might be able to maneuver around. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The other way we’ve used the alternatives, of course, is to try out different language or alternative language. And in the past, we’ve combined, mixed things together.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their perspective and offering suggestions for consideration.


Passage number 184.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is simply responding with "yes" to President Lacker's statement or question.


Passage number 185.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have two questions.  One is for you, Bill.  I’d like your help with understanding the second sentence in B(4).  I’m having trouble with it.  I don’t think I understand it correctly, particularly the role of price stability.  So let me tell you  what I think it says, the way I read it. It says, “If the outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially” in coming months—so, if that happens—then we’re going to do X.  So X, I think, is, as I read this, “undertake additional asset purchases . . . as appropriate until such improvement is achieved in a context of price stability.”  As I think about that, if that improvement is achieved but it’s not in a context of price stability, that seems to say to me that we’re going to still keep purchasing assets.  Have I got this wrong. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I want to defend Bill because he pointed out this problem.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question and statement of understanding by Mr. Lacker.


Passage number 186.
 MR. LACKER.  I actually pointed it out to him yesterday. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You pointed it out to him.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker (Mr. Lacker) simply confirms that he pointed something out to someone (not specified). The response "Okay" indicates agreement or understanding.


Passage number 187.
 MR. ENGLISH.  You’re not the first. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We have poetic license here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not present any indication of contention or disagreement. It simply states that "you're not the first" in regards to having poetic license in the mentioned context.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 188.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  You don’t mean that literally, right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. It means that we’re looking for improvement in a context of price stability. If we see improvement without price stability, that’s not a good thing, and we won’t continue purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker disagrees with the previous statement and argues that improvement without price stability is not a good thing and should not continue.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 189.
 MR. LACKER.  But this says you’re going to wait until you get improvement with price stability. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. Mr. Lacker disagrees with Chairman Bernanke's statement about waiting for improvement with price stability.


Passage number 190.
 I think it’s clear what— VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. It’s “subject to.” That’s really what it means. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. It’s “subject to.”  When we actually clarify this, assuming we go ahead and do more in January or whatever, we’ll be a little clearer in this kind of language here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It appears to be a statement of clarification or explanation.


Passage number 191.
MR. LACKER.  All right.  The second question I have—and I probably should have asked this during our first agenda item.  I’ve asked this at times in the past.  On the table is a flow of purchases of mortgage-backed securities.  I’ve asked in the past about the thought experiment of buying mortgage-backed securities versus buying an equivalent amount of U.S. Treasuries.  What I’ve asked about is, all right, comparing those two options, undoubtedly your forecast, as you’ve said, is that mortgage-backed security yields will be lower with purchases of mortgage-backed securities than with purchases of Treasuries, and that mortgage rates will be lower. Now, my gut instinct is that some other rates will be higher.  And I’ve asked about this in the past, but did you do any work on that this time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is asking a question and seeking clarification on whether any work has been done on the potential effects of purchasing mortgage-backed securities versus U.S. Treasuries.


Passage number 192.
 MR. POTTER.  Which rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not provide any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 193.
 MR. LACKER. Aren’t other rates going to be higher if we buy mortgage-backeds rather than Treasuries.  Because presumably, that means Treasury rates will be higher than they otherwise would be.  Presumably, some other rates are linked to Treasuries and not mortgage-backed securities, and presumably, they’re higher. Isn’t there some other rate that’s going to go up if we buy mortgage-backeds rather than Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is merely questioning the potential impact of buying mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries on other rates.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 194.
 MR. ENGLISH. Not go up, but go down by less.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests disagreement or contention based on the use of the phrase "Not go up, but go down by less." This implies that there may be differing opinions on whether the suggested action should be going up or going down.


Passage number 195.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Go down by less.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 196.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply agrees with the previous statement.


Passage number 197.
 MR. LACKER.  Oh, okay.  Well, no—but, see, I’m asking to compare buying X amount of Treasuries with buying X amount of mortgage-backed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is seeking clarification and asking for a comparison between two different types of purchases.


Passage number 198.
  So rates go down— MR. POTTER.  President Lacker, we are still buying Treasuries under the MEP in this program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about buying Treasuries under a program.


Passage number 199.
MR. LACKER.  Yes, I know.  But instead of buying $30 billion of mortgages, buy $30 billion of Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, is suggesting an alternative course of action, but there is no direct opposition or conflict present.


Passage number 200.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think the answer to your question is in table 1 in the options memo that we sent, which had an experiment where you do $500 billion of Treasury purchases or $500 billion of MBS—just one or the other.  The term premium effects are a little bit smaller if you buy the MBS, so Treasury yields decline by less.  They still decline. It’s still a purchase of a longer-term security and still taking duration out of the market and still putting downward pressure on longer-term rates, but by less.  The mortgage rate goes down by more if you buy MBS than if you buy Treasuries, because you’re pushing MBS down more and mortgage rates down by more.  And our estimate of the effects on inflation and output are similar in size.  They’re a little smaller for the MBS purchase, based on our modeling and our assumptions, than for the Treasury purchase, but they’re in the same ballpark.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any clear contention or disagreement. It is presenting information and comparing the effects of different types of purchases without any conflicting viewpoints being expressed.


Passage number 201.
 MR. LACKER.  So what other rates go down by less or are higher because you’ve been tilting toward mortgage-backeds.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 202.
 MR. ENGLISH. In FRB/US—Dave Reifschneider will tell me if I’m wrong—I think, basically, that other long-term rates, corporate rates or whatever, would go down by more if you bought Treasuries than if you bought MBS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. English, indicates that he believes buying Treasuries would result in greater decreases in other long-term rates compared to buying MBS. However, he acknowledges that Dave Reifschneider may have a different opinion.


Passage number 203.
 MR. PLOSSER.  So the MBS would provide less pass-through, in some sense, to corporates and other things.  Is that the idea.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states an idea or question without expressing any conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 204.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The answer is no. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 205.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Depends on what you think the degree of substitutability is between them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 206.
  MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.  And this really is pushing pretty hard on our ability to model this stuff, but that’s what our modeling says.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges the difficulty of modeling but agrees with the findings of the modeling.


Passage number 207.
 MR. LACKER.  So that takes away some stimulus, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is stating a fact that the removal of the stimulus takes away some stimulus.


Passage number 208.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes, that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

In the passage, Mr. English simply agrees or confirms a statement without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 209.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough information provided to determine if there is contention or disagreement present in the passage.


Passage number 210.
 And the MBS, on net— MR. POTTER.  Well, not overall, necessarily.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The response "Well, not overall, necessarily" implies agreement or a lack of disagreement.


Passage number 211.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Well, it doesn’t take away stimulus relative to doing nothing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact or opinion without any conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 212.
  It takes away stimulus relative to—  MR. ENGLISH. Buying an equivalent amount of Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not present any opposing viewpoints or conflicting arguments. It simply states a fact or observation about buying an equivalent amount of Treasuries.


Passage number 213.
 MR. LACKER. Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any statements or indications of contention or disagreement. It simply states that someone named Mr. Lacker replied or spoke.


Passage number 214.
 MR. POTTER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 215.
  On those— MR. LACKER.  In that sector.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Concluding from the given information, it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage. This is because the text provided is incomplete and the context is insufficient to make a definitive judgment.


Passage number 216.
 MR. POTTER.  Not necessarily for the economy as a whole.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not mention any disagreement or contention. It is a statement made by Mr. Potter, without any opposing views or conflicting opinions presented.


Passage number 217.
 MR. LACKER. Right.  So the rationale for MBS—is it that, on net, real outcomes are better.  Or is it more of a sectoral argument.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 218.
 MR. ENGLISH.  The argument we gave in the memo was that you want to have a balance across the two so that you can ramp up or ramp down.  We know from the capacity memo that we sent the Committee before the last meeting that there’s a maximum amount, roughly, that we were comfortable saying we could buy over the next couple of years.  That maximum amount has a ratio of Treasuries to MBS, and we’ve roughly maintained that ratio in these purchase programs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states the argument and the approach taken in the memo.


Passage number 219.
 MR. LACKER.  I understand.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker simply expresses his understanding and thanks.


Passage number 220.
MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. That’s the main argument.  There’s a second argument, which is not in the model sims we’ve run, but a lot of people believe that MBS could have effects that the model isn’t picking up—say, larger effects on house prices, bigger effects on mortgage refinancing, or something like that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart has a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating two arguments without expressing any disagreement or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 221.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Is there a connection or correlation between lowering mortgage-backed rates and other securitization vehicles such as auto, student loan, credit card.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply asks if there is a connection or correlation between lowering mortgage-backed rates and other securitization vehicles such as auto, student loan, credit card. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 222.
 MR. ENGLISH.  There might be in practice, but we’re not picking that up in the modeling that we’re doing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the modeling being done.


Passage number 223.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Just one observation.  Presumably, the reason why you also might want to split it is a market functioning issue. You can go bigger if you split it between two markets than if you concentrate all on one market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It presents an observation and a logical reasoning behind the possibility of splitting the market.


Passage number 224.
 MR. POTTER.  We are still buying in the Treasury market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement mentioned in the passage. The statement simply states that "We are still buying in the Treasury market."


Passage number 225.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. That was just a comment, but I have a question.  It seems to me as though the key money line in B is, “If the outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially, the Committee will continue its purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities and undertake additional asset purchases.”  That’s the key money line.  Now, I’d like to get staff members’ views of what they think people are going to interpret that line to mean in light of, say, the SEPs that are going to be put out and the Chairman’s press conference statement.  How do we think people are going to interpret that line.  That’s critical—you have to have a view on that to know what you’re really voting for, in some fundamental sense.  I know it’s judgment, but I’d love to hear your view.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own opinion and requesting the views of others in order to make an informed decision.


Passage number 226.
 MR. ENGLISH. We’re not sure.  I think we argued in our memos that it might be something like a ½ percentage point decline in the unemployment rate that’s sustained.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. English simply states that they are unsure about the answer.


Passage number 227.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  No, I don’t mean the effects on the macroeconomy.  I mean, when people write the articles at the end of the day, what are they going to think about how big this is likely to be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion and questioning what others' thoughts will be on the subject, but there is no explicit disagreement between different perspectives mentioned.


Passage number 228.
 MR. POTTER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only mentions "Mr. Potter" without providing any context or information that would indicate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 229.
  I don’t think it will show— VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage given. The statement is simply expressing an opinion without any counterarguments or conflicting ideas.


Passage number 230.
  They’re going to have our SEPs, and they’re going to have this information that shows that this unemployment rate trajectory— MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  You mean the purchase program itself.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 231.
 MR. POTTER.  The total amount for—they’re going to try to work out an expected date.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that someone named Mr. Potter is discussing the total amount and expected date of something, without any indication of disagreement or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 232.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.  And so I guess I’m asking, what kind of expected date do we think they can work out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any disagreement or contention. It is a question seeking information.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 233.
 MR. POTTER. The SEP will give them some information.  I don’t believe that shows a substantial improvement in the labor market for quite some time.  So that means that they’ll probably be looking for sometime in 2013.  That’s the way we’ve been modeling this, I think.  And the assumption you had, Bill, was something like $600 billion of total purchases—is that right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes

Explanation: There is contention or disagreement in the passage because Mr. Potter disagrees with the assumption made by Bill regarding the total purchases.


Passage number 234.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Including purchases under the MEP, it was $750 billion.  But, as I said in my remarks, it could easily be more.  People might see that the economy is expected to be weak for quite a while; they might carry it out further into 2013 and get a bigger amount.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that the amount could potentially be higher than $750 billion.


Passage number 235.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. For me, the obvious question to you, Mr. Chairman, at the press conference might be, given the SEP and your views, what does the SEP forecast imply in terms of “improve substantially”.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  My answer will be that we want to see—not what we saw last Friday.  We want to see increases in payrolls.  We want to see some progress—not sharp progress, but some progress—in the unemployment rate.  And we want to have a sense that the economy is moving in a direction that will help labor markets get better. We used the word “outlook.”  So a pickup in GDP growth would certainly be a factor in the outlook for labor markets, for example. I think we have a fail-safe here, which is that if it doesn’t have any effect, then we have the efficacy clause here as well.  But the idea would be that we want to see something different from the current waiting-in-place kind of situation where there’s no progress, the unemployment rate stays about the same, and monthly payrolls are 100,000 and less. And I will emphasize that it’s not a single indicator or a single trigger number; we’re looking holistically at the labor market indicators and, in fact, more broadly because it’s the outlook for the labor market that matters, not just the current number.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their own views and clarifying what they would like to see in terms of improvement in the labor market.


Passage number 236.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So you’d have to see improvement in the labor market that you thought would be sustained in the future. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is stating a condition that must be met, and the word "Right" at the end implies that the author is seeking agreement or confirmation from the reader.


Passage number 237.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. For what it’s worth, the Blue Chip forecasts for the unemployment rate going into the middle of 2013 are very flat.  Then, in the second half of 2013, they’re expecting to see a more noticeable downtilt in the unemployment rate.  So that’s another way of looking at it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply presenting the Blue Chip forecasts for the unemployment rate without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 238.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So the market would presumably put in nine months or more—that would be a reasonable guesstimate, I guess. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Again, it’s the outlook and not the actual.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It simply states a speculation or estimate about the market timeframe without any conflicting opinions or conflicting information.


Passage number 239.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without providing the passage, it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Please provide the passage for a more accurate analysis.


Passage number 240.
  MR. PLOSSER.  I just want some interpretation of the word “substantially” here because the market is going to ask you that as well.  What constitutes substantial progress. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Substantial progress means that we are seeing ongoing progress in the direction of improved labor market conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser is simply seeking clarification and interpretation of the word "substantially."


Passage number 241.
 MR. PLOSSER.  So it’s not something about the magnitude of the rate of change. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. It’s not the magnitude, but really a movement in that direction that is, I might say, persuasive or indicative that there is now progress in the right direction, as opposed to simply remaining static or getting worse.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no clear disagreement or contention in this passage. Mr. Plosser is explaining his perspective on progress, while President Lacker's response is not provided.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 242.
 MR. LACKER.  This is on the same point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The word "yes" indicates that there is contention or disagreement in the passage. However, without the accompanying context, it is difficult to determine what exactly is being disagreed upon.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 243.
 MR. LACKER.  David Wilcox showed us employment in his forecast summary, and when they do all of the seasonal adjustment right, it looks as though half of the improvement we got in the labor markets this past winter or the winter before, was spurious, seasonal stuff.  Would what we saw last winter suffice. Would we stop after that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I would think so.  It dropped 1 percentage point between August and April.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. MR. LACKER points out that half of the improvement in the labor markets in the past winter was "spurious, seasonal stuff." This implies that he disagrees with the idea that the improvement was genuine and lasting.


Passage number 244.
 MR. LACKER.  I’d be on board with that.  But his analysis suggests that that would be like another seasonal head fake. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, we’d look at a range of variables.  Of course, there’s nothing that says if you stop, you can’t start again.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

In this passage, there is agreement between the two speakers. Mr. Lacker expresses his agreement by saying "I'd be on board with that." The rest of the passage consists of them discussing different aspects of the potential action, but there is no clear disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 245.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  No, but last winter, though, it wasn’t really that convincing because, remember, payrolls were strong but GDP was weak, and we had this riddle. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We had this riddle.  Yes, that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "payrolls were strong but GDP was weak" suggests a discrepancy or contradiction, which implies a disagreement or contention between the two variables. Additionally, the mention of having a riddle further emphasizes the presence of contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 246.
  VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And so you could argue that you wouldn’t necessarily stop last winter, because you didn’t have the GDP growth to support the labor market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The statement presents an argument that suggests the lack of GDP growth did not provide enough support for the labor market, implying that it was a potential reason for not stopping last winter. This viewpoint may be debated or disagreed upon, as some may believe that other factors could have played a more significant role in the decision.


Passage number 247.
 MR. POTTER.  I don’t think our outlook changed that much.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We basically want to see progress in terms of the key macro labor market variables.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states a personal opinion on the outlook of the labor market.


Passage number 248.
 MR. LACKER.  All right.  Well, let me ask Bill Dudley’s question again.  What do you want the USA Today headline to be. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. “Bernanke, the Hero”. [Laughter] “Federal Reserve Says It Will Support Economy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 249.
” MR. FISHER.  That’s the sports section, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher is stating a fact about a section of a publication.


Passage number 250.
 MR. PLOSSER.  “Federal Reserve All In.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. “Federal Reserve Will Provide Support to Labor Market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is simply reporting a statement made by Mr. Plosser about the actions of the Federal Reserve. There is no evident disagreement or contention present.


Passage number 251.
” MR. LACKER.  By buying MBS. MS. DUKE.  And housing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Housing.  People understand that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no apparent contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker mentions buying mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and Ms. Duke adds to the statement by emphasizing housing. Both statements seem complementary and aligned in their focus on the housing market.


Passage number 252.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  Did you have a question, President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Yes, Mr. Chairman.  Bill, you made some comments about the 6½ percent unemployment trigger in alternative B, paragraph 5′. You said that some forecasters have slower progress on the unemployment rate, so they may view what is in alternative B as more accommodation than markets expect.  If you look at your page 1, “Alternative Monetary Policy Scenarios,” that 6½ percent rate, as you mentioned, is about mid-2015.  I know we’re  trying to get away from the date, but you made those points.  You didn’t say very much about the inflation rate, because here it says “no more than a half percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent objective.”  When you look at those scenarios, with alternative B, we don’t get anywhere close to 2½.  We’re just slightly above the 2.  At one point, we looked at some language that said “close to the Committee’s 2 percent objective.”  And I see that alternative B, and even alternative A, is close to our objective.  What are some of your thoughts.  Just as you had some thoughts about the 6½ percent being interpreted by some as being more aggressive, would that 2½ percent objective be viewed as, again, more aggressive, and is it necessary given the scenarios that you’ve laid out here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification and giving their thoughts on certain points, but there is no argument or disagreement present.


Passage number 253.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  It’s not an objective, though, right. GOVERNOR YELLEN.  It’s not an objective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 254.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  It’s not an objective.  It’s just a tolerance level.  That’s quite different. MS. PIANALTO.  But it’s a matter of perceptions also.  We’re talking about communications.  And we’ve made a lot of progress and laid out a 2 percent objective.  What are the advantages. Using “close to 2 percent” would still give us the flexibility that’s laid out in these scenarios, but we’re not communicating to the public that we’re throwing out ½ percentage point.  It seems as though we’re throwing out a number, whereas, “close to” gives us some of that flexibility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. Ms. Pianalto is expressing her disagreement with the idea of using a specific target percentage and instead suggesting using a more flexible term like "close to 2 percent."


Passage number 255.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think the ½ percentage point buffer was intended just for clarity.  If you said “close to,” everybody would ask the Chairman at his press conference, “What do you mean by ‘close to’.” and try to extract that information.  People will be looking at the SEP, and the SEP shows inflation below 2 or at 2, roughly, but not going above.  So I don’t think they’d   misread the ½ percentage point buffer as suggesting an intention to set out to push inflation above 2.  It would simply be seen as a buffer.  There could be transitory shocks that would change the inflation outlook for a time, and the Committee could look through those and say, “Okay.  We’re going to go up as high as maybe 2½ for a little while, but after that, we think inflation is going to come back.  In the end, we’re getting to our objective, and that’s okay.” But whether you want to say explicitly “½ percentage point” or “close to” is a question of communications.  It’s a little clearer to say the number and not use “close to.”  But this is a communications issue for the Committee. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining his opinion on using a ½ percentage point buffer in communication, but there is no opposing viewpoint presented.


Passage number 256.
 MR. STEIN.  Yes.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Can I ask one more press conference question.  Suppose somebody says, “We get to the end of 2013, it’s December 2013, and we’re exactly where we are today.  So the unemployment rate, job growth—everything is pretty much exactly where we are today. Do you envision that we’ll still be continuing asset purchases at that point.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  As we go through time, as the balance sheet grows, as we observe the effects on the economy, we’ll be continually reevaluating the efficacy of the program and the costs that it is imposing.  And if we feel that we’ve reached that point and the program is not being effective, then we will have to stop.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 257.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes. I’ll just add on to what you said, Mr. Chairman.  This question is an important one, but I think there are just two ways you could end up being in the same place.  It could be that there were a lot of bad shocks and the asset purchases helped you stop that, or maybe not.  We’ll have to make that call at that time.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We have overnight.  If any genius around the table would like to come up with better language, I would be more than happy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Kocherlakota is simply adding on to what the Chairman said and expressing a need to make a decision based on the information available at the time.


Passage number 258.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Mr. Chairman, I counsel you against offering that.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  Are we all set.  [No response] Bill, what do you want us to do with these handouts. Do you want us to take them home and bring them back.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. Although Mr. Kocherlakota advises against offering something, it is followed by laughter, suggesting a lighthearted exchange rather than a serious disagreement. The subsequent question and lack of response indicate a lack of contention.


Passage number 259.
 MR. ENGLISH.  You have lots of Class I information in your Tealbook, so you can keep them. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both parties seem to be in agreement about the distribution of information.


Passage number 260.
 MR. ENGLISH.  But please don’t leave them on the subway.  [Laughter]. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Don’t leave them on the subway.  So 8:30 tomorrow morning.  The reception is available at 5:00 p.m. [Meeting recessed]  September 13 Session CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Good morning, everybody.  We should have a reasonable amount of time.  We need to get the statement in by 11:30 and close the meeting by noon.  But first, to get started, why don’t we begin our policy go-round. I have President Williams first on the list.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is a simple exchange of information and instructions.


Passage number 261.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B with the forward guidance on the funds rate in paragraph 5′.  The case for further action is clear. In the absence of significant additional monetary stimulus, progress toward our policy goals would remain stalled.  Such an outcome is simply inconsistent with the notion of appropriate monetary policy and, in my view, is unacceptable. We must aim for a path that brings us measurably closer to our goals over the forecast horizon, and we must take concrete actions that get us on that path.  Open-ended purchases of MBS represent a substantial step in that direction.  With this action, unemployment will fall more quickly and inflation will return toward 2 percent faster than under the status quo. The flow-oriented asset purchases in alternative B also provide flexibility that’s particularly valuable, given all the uncertainties of the economy, the fiscal cliff, and Europe.  They serve as a useful automatic stabilizer as market expectations about the ultimate size of the program adjust in response to changes in economic conditions and the outlook.  If the labor market shows signs of substantial improvement sooner than expected, the program can be curtailed.  In contrast, if the recovery falters, the program can provide additional needed support. There would be similar benefits from incorporating such an automatic stabilizer into our forward guidance of the future path of the funds rate.  The language in paragraph 5′ does just that.  Incorporating this language into our statement would allow us to finally get the calendar-date monkey off our back and provide better guidance on our policy reaction function— importantly, at least, on economic conditions—for funds rate liftoff that is both clear and consistent with our dual-mandate objectives.  It’s also flexible enough to handle a variety of future paths for the economy and inflation.  Indeed, the beauty of this approach is it provides guidance for contingencies where our forecasts go wrong, which they inevitably do. Finally, I continue to favor lowering the interest on excess reserves rate, the IOER rate, to 15 basis points.  We should be using all of our tools in the same direction.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Williams, is expressing his support for alternative B and provides several reasons why he believes it is the appropriate course of action.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 262.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B with the $40 billion per month mortgage purchase program and prefer option 5′, which moves us away from dates and focuses on the economic outcomes we seek to achieve. Inflation is quite low, and unemployment is quite high, and most of our forecasts for the past nine months have overestimated how quickly we would see improvements in either element of our mandate. Alternative B embraces the sense of doing what it takes to move the economy at an acceptable pace toward full employment with stable prices. Alternative B continues to take out duration, provides some direct support to housing, which is just beginning to recover, and extends guidance on the funds rate liftoff, which, given our lack of progress toward our mandate, seems appropriate. I strongly support the $40 billion rather than the $30 billion monthly mortgage purchase program. I would also prefer to include economic targets rather than date targets in our guidance.  Thus, I would prefer the conditionality language in 5′. The language has two advantages.  First, the conditions for changing our policy stance are clear and observable to the general public.  Second, date-conditional language can be subsequently undercut by Committee members’ comments that suggest a different date may be appropriate, thus altering the effect of policy relative to the intent of the consensus reached by the Committee. Because 5′ conditions the policy on observable outcomes, the public can adjust its expectations automatically to changing economic circumstances, and there is less likelihood of perhaps inadvertently diminishing our policies’ effectiveness due to Committee disagreement. There seem to be two arguments against taking action at least as strong as B at this meeting.  First, that it would be ineffective.  Estimates in Boston are that following option A would reduce unemployment by approximately 0.8 percent by the end of 2015.  This is roughly in line with the Board staff memos and the consensus policy submissions from three other banks that reported a preferred policy that was close to A.  If accurate, this implies creating more than 1 million jobs relative to doing nothing at this meeting. I do not view that as de minimis. The second argument against more aggressive action is that it will cause inflation.  Again, the consensus forecast exercise is instructive.  Among banks that provided numeric submissions, those that assumed further easing assume underlying inflation will remain well anchored.  This assumption is consistent with the Boston forecasting model.  Two of the Banks that provided numbers and assumed earlier tightening than we do have virtually identical unemployment rates with and without tightening, but a dramatically higher inflation rate under the baseline policy.  This is markedly different than the staff forecast, the DSGE models that we have seen, and the models used by Banks assuming the need for easing.  It would be interesting to discuss the theoretical basis and empirical evidence for such an inflationary process, which I presume is tied to dislodging of inflation expectations.  However, absent a strong empirical basis for such an inflation process and with inflation tracking below our target and roughly consistent with the staff forecast in models that assume expectations remain well anchored, I view the risks ofinflation as being well contained through 2015, even with a more aggressive policy than in alternative B.  Thus, I support B but would strongly prefer the forward guidance in the language of 5′ and the larger mortgage purchase amount.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker expresses support for alternative B with the $40 billion monthly mortgage purchase program and prefers option 5′ for forward guidance. They argue that date-conditional language can be undercut by Committee members' comments, causing confusion, and advocate for policy conditions that are clear and observable to the public. Additionally, the speaker dismisses arguments against more aggressive action, citing estimates that show job creation and asserting that risks of inflation are well-contained.


Passage number 263.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  We’re going through at a rapid pace. We’re going to be done within the hour here, I think.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple statement by Mr. Bullard about the pace of the current process.


Passage number 264.
 MR. TARULLO.  Don’t bet on it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states "Don't bet on it," without any indication of contention or disagreement. It could be interpreted as a cautious statement or a suggestion to not place any certainty on something, but without further context, it does not suggest disagreement.


Passage number 265.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Yes, just a point of clarification.  I view the language of 5′ as a threshold, not a trigger.  Threshold language would be, “low rates appropriate, at least as long as the unemployment rate exceeds 6½ percent.”  A trigger would be, “A low rate is appropriate only as long as the unemployment rate exceeds 6½ percent.”  So I think it is written as a threshold, not a trigger.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is explaining the difference between threshold language and trigger language but there is no contention or disagreement present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 266.
 MR. BULLARD.  Can I respond to that.  I agree that that is the language in there, but I think markets will interpret it as a trigger.  Or let me say, as a fair way, I think there is a danger that markets will interpret that as a line in the sand or a trigger.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard agrees with the language present but expresses concern about how markets might interpret it. This suggests a potential difference of opinion.


Passage number 267.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think it’s pretty easy for the Chairman in the press conference—if we were to go this route—to explain what a threshold means.  I don’t think it is that complicated.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply expresses their belief that it would be easy for the Chairman in a press conference to explain what a threshold means, and they don't think it is a complicated concept.


Passage number 268.
 MR BULLARD. If it’s not a trigger, why put the number in. Put a lower number in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not include any contention or disagreement. It is a statement rather than a debate or argument.


Passage number 269.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That’s okay, too.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 270.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I am going to support alternative B. Having said that, I have some reservations about going down the path of a new LSAP, particularly the whole-hog approach that’s in alternative A. I am reticent on two counts. First, I remain unconvinced about the likely efficacy of expanding our asset purchases.  As I said in the economy round, I think the conditions that made the first two LSAP programs successful—a lack of liquidity in MBS markets in the case of LSAP1 and elevated concerns about outright deflation in the case of LSAP2—are not present in the current environment.  This time around, it seems to me that we face a more conventional problem of inadequate demand, and I am not convinced that lowering general market rates will stimulate much credit expansion and spending.  Furthermore, it is not clear to me that credit conditions in mortgage markets have eased quite enough to the point that more MBS purchases will have a significant impact. Second, I have learned to be humble as regards outlook certainty.  I have not completely abandoned the hypothesis that the willingness of businesses to hire and businesses and consumers to spend will improve on the other side of the election and fiscal cliff negotiations.  As I commented yesterday, I believe there is some upside risk.  Though the European situation is not rapidly converging to a truly comprehensive resolution, I see some hope that the process of incremental steps may cumulatively lead to a large leap in overall confidence. I don’t have a whole lot of conviction that these optimistic outcomes will be realized, so I accept the case for some policy response to current circumstances in the Committee’s outlook. That said, I will support alternative B’s modest pace of $30 billion per month.  That would be my preference for expansion of our MBS portfolio.   With respect to the choice between paragraph 5 and 5′, I am sympathetic to the idea of replacing calendar dates with economic conditionality.  I have said that in earlier meetings. But I am not in favor of the formulation in 5′, at least today. I have views similar to President Bullard’s.  The unemployment rate is a partial and potentially misleading indicator of labor market performance.  The pace of employment growth needed to attain a given unemployment rate can be very sensitive to changes in the participation rate. For example, at current participation rates, it will take just over 200,000 jobs a month to get to a 7 percent unemployment rate by the end of next year.  I would consider 200,000 jobs a month over the next 16 months to be consistent with sustained significant improvement in the labor market. But the Board staff, and many on the Committee, have noted that labor force participation rates appear to be well below the levels that can be explained by demographic trends.  My own staff estimates that only 40 percent of the drop in participation rates since the beginning of the recession is due to labor force aging.  If the participation rate were to revert to the level it was just last September, job gains of 200,000 per month would, everything else being equal, yield an unemployment rate that would be barely below 8 percent by the end of 2013.  And I would not be willing to say that such an outcome would constitute a lack of progress in meeting our employment mandate. Paragraph 5′, as it is written, contains no reference to broader labor market conditions.  I believe there was a reference in an earlier version, but it is has been removed.  I think that this is a significant omission, particularly with an unemployment threshold as ambitious as 6½ percent.  I’m not comfortable with a number that low, combined with a lack of any reference at all to our broader employment objectives.  There are enough facets of the 6½ percent decision to consider that it feels a little rushed to me at this meeting.   As regards paragraph 4, I would include the reference to other policy tools. I think the meaning of this paragraph should be that if conditions don’t improve, the Committee will continue the MBS purchase program and may undertake additional asset purchases, employ other policy tools, or both.  If I misunderstand the meaning of that paragraph, then I would ask for a little bit more work on this paragraph and further clarification this morning.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart, in 5′, the very last sentence does reference labor market conditions.  Did you note that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lockhart expresses reservations about expanding asset purchases and lowering market rates, as he is not convinced it will stimulate credit expansion and spending. He also disagrees with the formulation in paragraph 5′, as it does not include a reference to broader labor market conditions.


Passage number 271.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Let me look at that.  I stand corrected.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 272.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Resource slack is large, labor market conditions lack momentum toward improvement, and the inflation profile in our projections is slightly below our longer-run objective for the most part. I support strong and meaningful policy actions today to address these deficiencies. I accept that alternative B delivers on these requirements.  I think that the $40 billion of MBS and 5′ are very helpful in delivering that. I will simply note that the formulation of forward guidance in 5′ is not quite as strong as I have preferred in the past, but I do think that it is a good, careful approach that will in fact boost monetary policy accommodation, and I can certainly support that, if it is adopted. I think that the wording paragraph 2 is extremely important. It states the monetary policy concern as follows:  “The Committee is concerned that, without further policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough to generate sustained improvement in labor market conditions.”  That is very important.  It follows through on the minutes from our July meeting, as well as your grave concerns and remarks expressed at Jackson Hole, so I favor that.I favor this combination of essentially open-ended asset purchases, which are flexible when you put paragraphs 3 and 4 together, plus the enhanced state-contingent forward guidance in paragraph 4.  President Bullard went through this rationale a little bit. Let me just summarize and say I put a lot of weight on the research literature that Mike Woodford described.  I thought he did a terrific job.  In Woodford’s formulation, clear expectations of forward guidance are important and effective for delivering policy accommodation. In fact, I held my breath when I read the page where he described when I had talked about the 7/3 thresholds, and I thought that Mike was kind and gentle in criticizing but saying that that type of forward guidance did deliver more accommodation than what his best choice was.  In that sense, the language in 5′ would indeed be helpful.  The evidence for LSAPs that you mentioned yesterday, Mr. Chairman, was very important.  The two reinforce each other very well. In paragraph 3, as I mentioned, I favor the stronger pace of MBS at $40 billion.  I think that paragraph 4 makes this essentially open-ended by conditioning further LSAPs on substantial improvement in labor conditions, joint with price stability, and with policy effectiveness, as you mentioned yesterday.  So there are important safeguards there.  It can be flexible and can turn around if in fact it is not working as best we would hope. In terms of labor market improvement, it would be unambiguously an improvement if we got something on the order of payroll employment increasing 200,000 per month for several months.  If the unemployment rate declined either with momentum or continuous improvement, and, indeed, we got GDP growth above trend, those would be all of the markers that we would expect for a strong recovery that would be associated with an improving labor market.  We may well not be lucky enough to see all three of those at the same time, so we will have to pay attention to that.   As you mentioned, the last sentence in paragraph 5′ gets at this larger characterization of labor market improvement beyond just the unemployment rate, but the unemployment rate is a very important marker.  I think that the paragraph 5′ forward guidance is explicitly state contingent, and it allows us to remove the calendar date.  It is very easy for us to be against calendar dates.  I think that most of us are uncomfortable with this formulation, that policy can remain low until late 2014 or beyond.  But we are uncomfortable because of the ambiguous nature. Is it a forecast.  Is it commitment. It is easy to be against that, but you have to be in favor of something in order to actually take it out.  The state contingency in 5′ is very useful.  So the 6½ unemployment rate marker, with the 2 plus ½ percentage point on inflation, is a useful safeguard.  Presidents Williams, Rosengren, and Kocherlakota spoke well about how this works, and that it is critical to describe our attitudes about inflation above our goal of 2.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of support for a particular policy action.


Passage number 273.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Let me start by saying something positive about alternative B.  [Laughter] I very much like the idea in paragraph 5′ of replacing our problematic calendar-based guidance with language that is conditional on future economic conditions.  I think this is much needed change.  It focuses our communication, our forward guidance, on a reaction function, and reduces the danger that Michael Woodford very eloquently laid out that our forward guidance is actually just making people gloomier about the economic fundamentals. It’s a very real danger, and I think there is a very real possibility that that is the effect our forward guidance has been having over the course of the last year. Okay.  That was my positive remark.  I would like to move on now to some improvement opportunities I see.  [Laughter] I think in 5′ that it would be better if we avoided using a specific numerical value for the unemployment rate as a threshold or trigger, whatever we are going to   do. I took a step back.  This is a large change in our statement.  This is a fairly dramatic change in the set of language we use to characterize our forward guidance. It’s an ambitious statement. In view of our experience with the forward guidance earlier this year, where we got boxed in for something that in hindsight we could have anticipated, I tried to think of ways in which this language could unexpectedly box us in or tie our hands in ways that we don’t anticipate now.  I think this numerical unemployment rate is one of them. President Lockhart was very eloquent about this.  This makes us hostage to labor force participation rates.  We would be vulnerable to a scenario—he sketched it out—in which employment picks up, and that starts drawing people into the labor force.  This is not an unfamiliar phenomenon historically, in which labor force growth that tails off and turns negative when the unemployment rate goes up, then picks up when employment growth starts rising.  Given the behavior of the labor force over the past several years, I don’t think we should have a lot of confidence in our ability to project how the unemployment rate would behave in a scenario in which employment growth picked up a lot.  I think this is a really serious risk.  It would be better to write the statement in terms of the qualitative language used earlier that President Lockhart was referring to. For example, we could say, “This exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least until the Committee has seen substantial ongoing improvement in labor market conditions.” I think that formulation would be preferable to the language that uses a specific numerical target. The second opportunity I see has to do with the inflation language in the same statement.  We used the phrase that “this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as” blah, blah, blah, “provided that inflation at a one- to two-year horizon is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent objective and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored.”  So the logic is  clear, to give ourselves an out if the inflation picture deteriorates substantially.  Personally, I think the “close to 2 percent” language would be better.  That’s more consistent with the kind of standard we described in our consensus statement.  Proliferating conditionality language can be confusing.  But there is a deeper problem with this language.  My sense is that it has been true for the past 20 years in which we have achieved price stability—I believe it has been true—that inflation over the medium term, the next couple of years, was projected to be close to 2 percent or below that.  I haven’t gone and checked, but I am virtually sure that’s true.  This was a period during which we achieved and maintained price stability.  It is essential to maintain that credibility because it can be costly to regain, but we started this period by moving preemptively, before the forecast of inflation moved away from that low rate.  And in the future, it is going to be important for us to be able to move preemptively. If this condition is violated, it is in some sense too late. It’s not like we are going to go back to the 1970s right away if this condition is violated, but I think this sets too low a bar.  There is a way to word this that tightens this. We can say, instead of “provided that inflation at a one- to two-year horizon,” we could say, “unless inflation, at a one- to two-year horizon, would be projected to be more than ½ percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent objective.”  Something like that makes clear that we would move to keep this condition true, that we are not going to wait until this condition is violated in order to move. The third suggestion I have for improvement in B(5) concerns the last sentence. I suggest we delete it. I think it is quite confusing.  This represents the fifth different statement of conditionality on the second page, in two paragraphs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, starts by expressing his positive opinion about a specific aspect of the alternative B plan. However, he then goes on to identify potential improvement opportunities in the plan, offering suggestions for changes. While he presents his concerns and suggestions, there is no direct and explicit disagreement or contention with any other person or viewpoint mentioned in the passage.


Passage number 274.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Are you saying the last sentence in 5′.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation:
The given passage does not provide any information about the content of the last sentence in 5'. Therefore, it is not possible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement based on the given information.


Passage number 275.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I want to comment on one of your observations, President Lacker, about the last sentence of 5′. I read it slightly differently than you do, and I don’t know how other people read it. I read the sentence preceding it as saying that we currently anticipate that these are the right metrics, but then the last sentence says that that current anticipation could be modified by what we see over time.  You are basically saying that you are not completely locked into the first thing, regardless of what economic information you see in the future.  So I think the sentences actually do work together in a reasonable way.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is a response to someone's observation and offers an alternative interpretation of a sentence. The response states that the sentences "work together in a reasonable way," indicating a level of agreement.


Passage number 276.
 MR. LACKER.  So the policy we’re adopting here is that an exceptionally low rate for the funds rate is going to be appropriate as long as the unemployment rate exceeds 6½ percent, inflation is well contained, or we decide that some other indicator of labor market conditions is more appropriate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating the policy that is going to be adopted.


Passage number 277.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  We currently anticipate that this is the right range, but our view is going to be modified by future information about a broad range of indicators.  That is how I read it.  That seems to be more intelligent than saying we are locked into this, regardless of what happens, regardless of what we see, and we are not allowed to learn about anything as the economy evolves.  It creates a little nuance, which is reasonable in terms of how one would expect the Committee to operate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not express any explicit disagreement or contention. It simply discusses the anticipation of future information modifying the current view, which is seen as a more intelligent approach compared to being locked into one perspective regardless of new information.


Passage number 278.
   MR. LACKER.  Well, then, why not soften the 6½ and use more general labor market conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, is suggesting an alternative approach without showing disagreement or opposition to the current situation.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 279.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Because you are trying to give guidance about what the Committee thinks at the time, what we think today that might be modified or might not be modified by future information.  But clearly it would be unintelligent not to modify your view if the information strongly contradicted your prior view.  That’s how I read it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President George. MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Despite massive monetary policy accommodation over the past four years, a stronger recovery has not yet materialized, and last week’s labor market report was a frustrating reminder of this long slog.  Like others, my forecast accounts for any number of risks related to Europe, the U.S. fiscal cliff, and the regulatory environment, and does recognize that policy accommodation may need to remain in place for some time in order to support the recovery.  I understand the case for taking action in order to spur the recovery and bring down unemployment faster.  To that end, the Committee agreed to undertake additional balance sheet actions only a few months ago.  Today, we contemplate doing more.  Certainly, the data flow since the last meeting was a bit softer than I had expected, but not sufficiently so to warrant a further expansion of our balance sheet.  In that regard, I note that the Tealbook had pulled forward the timing of the first rate increase since our last meeting. As I weigh the cost of action versus the status quo, I have appreciated the thoughtful analysis of Board staff and a number of my colleagues around this table about the effects of another asset purchase.  Unfortunately, I find that the risks associated with further action carry less precise measurement, but, to the extent they are possible, pose significant cost if realized.  Impairing market functioning in certain financial markets, the potential for the Federal Reserveto experience financial losses in the future, and risks to financial stability due to the extended low rate environment all strike me as significant when weighed against potential benefits.  A larger balance sheet also has the potential to further complicate an exit strategy. Another LSAP also may have near-term adverse consequences.  Given the recent rise in gasoline prices, additional asset purchases could generate a further rise in oil and gasoline prices, which would weigh on middle- and lower-income households and, thus, partially offset estimated benefits. I also remain concerned that a balance sheet expansion could at some point raise inflation expectations.  Longer-term measures of inflation expectations, or breakeven inflation, appeared to respond strongly to past LSAP announcements.  Given that current longer-term breakeven inflation measures are consistent with our stated goal, I am concerned that another LSAP program could push longer-term expectations above a level consistent with our objectives. If this were to occur, we would face a difficult tradeoff between allowing longer-term expectations to drift higher or reversing course by reducing the size of the balance sheet.  Either option strikes me as damaging to both the real economy and our credibility. In terms of the forward guidance, I agree with those who note the time-contingent guidance has been problematic.  And so conceptually I agree that the state-contingent guidance is preferable as long as we can articulate this guidance in a manner that is fully consistent with our January 2012 strategy statement, including our assessment of risk to the financial system.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage contains disagreement or contention. President George expresses her disagreement with the idea of further balance sheet actions and asset purchases, citing risks and potential adverse consequences.


Passage number 280.
 MR. FISHER.  May I just ask a question. When we say “in a context of price stability,” we also mean well-anchored inflation expectations, is that correct. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We do.  That’s the phrase.  I recognize it’s not completely grammatical as President Lacker pointed out, but the implication is that, of course, at all times we’ll maintain that conditionality as we undertake our policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is clarifying a term and the response indicates agreement.


Passage number 281.
 MR. FISHER.  And you will work that into your press conference if it’s appropriate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, yes.  Absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both speakers are in agreement and expressing affirmation or confirmation.


Passage number 282.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage simply states that Mr. Fisher is expressing gratitude towards President Lockhart. There is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 283.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  In paragraph 4, just a thought to throw on the table, and that is take the last sentence of 5′, inject it after the words “price stability,” so that the effect of the last two sentences would be to frame this whole question of continuing accommodation—in effect, framing the way we’re going to deliberate over this over the next few weeks. It seems to me comprehensive.  It refers to improvement in labor market conditions generally, and also of course, efficacy and cost and all of that.  I can see combining those two sentences.  Each begins, for what it’s worth, with “In determining, …” and that might make that paragraph a good set-up. I’ll also point out that in all likelihood, the minutes are going to portray that we have given some consideration to threshold thinking, and so this would serve to frame that for the market reaction over the next few weeks.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Because it refers to the time horizon, wouldn’t that kind of language be more appropriate as we look toward the language of 5.  In other words, I thought for a moment you were suggesting taking that and putting it at the end of 5.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 284.
 MR. LOCKHART. I’m actually thinking it might fit in 4.  I put this on the table a little bit off the top of my head.  The Committee will continue its purchases, undertake additional asset purchases, and employ its other tools until such improvement is achieved in the context of price stability.  In determining how long we’re going to do that, we’d take into account the pace of labor market conditions and so forth.  In determining the size, pace, and composition, as always, we’d take into account efficacy and cost.  I just saw that as a boxing of all of the things we would take into consideration if we go to essentially an open-ended kind of approach. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. In my press conference I’m going to be very clear that obviously this is not a numeric objective, and we’ll be looking at a range of employment and output indicators, which all bear on the outlook for sustained improvement in labor marketconditions and declining unemployment, and I’d rather convey that breadth verbally.  I’m afraid we’re getting a little complicated.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Lockhart, is discussing the factors that would be taken into consideration when determining the length, size, pace, and composition of the Committee's purchases and tools. He mentions the need to consider efficacy and cost, as well as various employment and output indicators. He also mentions that he would prefer to convey the breadth of the considerations verbally. Overall, there is no clear disagreement or contention present in this passage.


Passage number 285.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Fair enough. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Lockhart responded with "Fair enough" to a statement made by the Vice Chairman.


Passage number 286.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes, I had the same reaction that you had. I didn’t see how it would fit in 4 because you hadn’t really explained the forward guidance yet.  One could take the last sentence of 4 and the last sentence of 5′ and make a new paragraph 6 and sum up.  Then you’d have the statement about asset purchases, the statement about forward guidance, and a summary paragraph that said, “in determining both these things.”  That would be more logical.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply explaining their own understanding of the text and proposing a suggestion for a clearer organization of the paragraphs.


Passage number 287.
 MR. LACKER.  A paragraph full of escape clauses, in other words.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not present any specific claim or viewpoint to be debated or disagreed upon. It makes a statement describing the content of a paragraph, without expressing any opinion or introducing a conflicting stance.


Passage number 288.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Essentially. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Since the given passage only includes the word "Essentially. President Lacker," it lacks enough information to determine whether there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 289.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  I was going to ask a question about something else. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Go ahead.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 290.
 MR. LACKER. In the forward-guidance language, we deleted the economic conditions clause there.  We’ve had a lot of discussion of Professor Woodford’s paper.  We’ve talked  a lot about that in the context of 5′ and that language, but I’m thinking that what you had in mind by deleting the economic conditions clause was in part motivated by his critique as well, the idea that by saying it’s conditions that are pushing the time horizon out, we were focusing on how bad things are.  The intention, as I read you, is for us to be communicating more about our reaction function. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is describing a discussion about the reasoning behind deleting the economic conditions clause in the forward-guidance language. There is no contention or disagreement present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 291.
 MR. LACKER.  I want to re-ask a question I asked earlier this year.  When we adopted this language, we never really got clear on whether it’s a commitment or not.  We wrestled with different versions of what that meant.  Is this signaling that we’re going to pursue an action that later on we would not want to pursue then. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think it’s still conditional because it obviously depends on the timing of the recovery and so on.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, expresses uncertainty and disagreement about the language used in a previous decision. He mentions that there was confusion and differing interpretations regarding whether the language is a commitment or not. This disagreement is evident by his statement that they "never really got clear" on the matter.


Passage number 292.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  So it’s contingent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But I mentioned the SEP changes and so on.  I think we around this table have moved to the view that communicating low rates for longer in a way that may require some credibility is an approach to dealing with the zero lower bound, not in an extreme way, but I think there is some of that now in the statement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the view around the table regarding the approach of communicating low rates for longer as a way to deal with the zero lower bound. While there may be different perspectives on the extent to which this approach should be taken, the passage does not indicate any direct contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 293.
 MR. LACKER. We have a statement, and we can walk away from this and each interpret it in our own way, or we can have a Committee sense of what we’re doing. Is policy in the future to be conditioned on this.  In other words, as Woodford suggests, is policy going to be history-dependent. Is the fact that we said this going to alter future policy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  In my Jackson Hole remarks, I talked about the guidance.  I said it was conditional, dependent on the state of the economy.  But in explaining the time, I said we look at rules and optimal control and those sorts of things, but we also take into account some other factors such as downside risks, the effects of the zero lower bound, and implicitly I said the possibility that the equilibrium real rate of interest is lower than normal—that is, headwinds.  So I am conveying, I think, some sense that in order to achieve more stimulus today, there’s a bit of a commitment element there—I don’t think we’ve gone too far out on a limb on this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention and disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is questioning whether the statement made by the Committee will alter future policy and suggests that there may be a commitment element to achieving more stimulus.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 294.
 MR. LACKER. Help us interpret financial market data going forward.  What do you expect.  Because our purchases don’t include TIPS, should we factor something in about TIPS yields.  Are they in the habitat, out of the habitat. MS. LOGAN.  In our MEP purchases, we purchase TIPS today.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. 

The question from Mr. Lacker suggests that including TIPS yields in the interpretation of financial market data may be important, while Ms. Logan's response indicates that TIPS are already being purchased. This suggests a disagreement or confusion about whether TIPS are being factored into the analysis.


Passage number 295.
 MR. LACKER.  You do. MS. LOGAN.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers agree that "You do" is the correct answer.


Passage number 296.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide any information or context that would indicate contention or disagreement. It is simply stating someone's response with the word "okay."


Passage number 297.
 MR. POTTER.  The MEP is still ongoing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement does not exhibit contention or disagreement. It simply states that the MEP (whatever it refers to) is still ongoing.


Passage number 298.
 MR. LACKER.  But we weren’t proposing to do it in the overall asset purchase program, were we.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification by restating the proposal made previously.


Passage number 299.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 300.
 MR. LACKER.  Include TIPS. MS. LOGAN. If we had added purchases under a new asset purchase program for Treasuries, we would have done so.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It only shows two individuals discussing the possibility of adding purchases under a new asset purchase program for Treasuries, specifically TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities).


Passage number 301.
 MR. LACKER. Okay.  You would.  Sorry.  I misread something then.  I apologize.  Let me ask another question.  How linked is the private-label MBS market to agency MBS yields. Do you anticipate this pushing that spread apart. MS. LOGAN.  I think the way we’ve been estimating these effects is that the MBS purchases would affect the Treasury term premium, and to the extent that the pass-through from the lowering of interest rates moves other asset markets, equities, or the private-label market— we talked about what that pass-through is.  There’s some uncertainty, but we would expect the channel to be through that form.  I guess there could be some other form because it is MBS, and private label is a little bit more closely connected than maybe from Treasuries to private label, but overall we have been expecting the pass-through to happen through lowering interest rates more broadly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers seem to be in agreement that the MBS purchases would affect the Treasury term premium and potentially impact other asset markets, such as equities and the private-label market. They acknowledge some uncertainty but generally expect the pass-through to happen through lowering interest rates more broadly.


Passage number 302.
 MR. LACKER.  All right.  Relative to buying Treasuries, we’re tilting credit from the private-label market to the agency market.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  I’d just like to say something about the private label because there has been almost no issuance of private label in a number of years because there’s just not much supply out there.  There is a little bit of jumbo issuance.  Again, in the spirit of things that are cooking out there, the Federal Home Loan Banks, particularly I think the Home Loan Bank of Chicago is now looking at consolidating jumbo securities from banks across the country, not just that are in the Chicago district, and feeding them through Redwood to try to generate some more broader private-label issuance, for jumbo and more broadly. I would expect that to the extent that that happens, it certainly wouldn’t be unhelpful.  It might be helpful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers are discussing the current situation of private-label issuance in the market and potential initiatives to increase it.


Passage number 303.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, but what they’re saying is that compared with buying Treasuries only, this is reducing agency MBS yields by more—Treasury yields will fall, but not as much as what they would fall if we bought Treasuries only.  They’re tilting the playing field away from everything priced on Treasuries toward agency MBS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply explaining that the decision to buy agency MBS instead of Treasuries is causing agency MBS yields to decrease more than Treasury yields, thereby affecting the pricing of various assets.


Passage number 304.
 MR. POTTER.  President Lacker, we’re still buying $45 billion of long-term Treasuries in the MEP right now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Potter is providing information about the current buying activity of $45 billion long-term Treasuries in the MEP.


Passage number 305.
  MR. LACKER.  Yes, I know that, but the apples-to-apples thing is $40 billion agency MBS versus $40 billion Treasuries in this setting, and comparing those two, private-label MBS yields are going to be higher, given that we’re buying agency MBS, than they would be if we were buying Treasuries only.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining that when comparing agency MBS yields to Treasury yields, private-label MBS yields will be higher.


Passage number 306.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  They’re not going to be higher.  They’re not going to drop as much, presumably.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not involve any disagreement or contention. It simply states that the prices will not be higher and adds a presumptive statement about their drop.


Passage number 307.
 MR. LACKER.  Exactly.  They’re going to be higher than they would in the alternative. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. In that respect we don’t care because they’re not being created.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is presenting a fact about the potential higher prices in one scenario without expressing any opposition or debate.


Passage number 308.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, they would be even less created now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is a continuation of a previous thought without any contrasting or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 309.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I don’t actually think we know very much about what would happen to private-label MBS yields because there’s so little issuance; there’s so little pricing information. It’s conceivable that pushing down agency MBS would also push down private-label MBS yields, but I don’t think we know because there hasn’t been much issuance there and we don’t have information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The statement made by Mr. English is addressing a lack of knowledge about the potential impact of pushing down agency MBS yields on private-label MBS yields. There is no contention or disagreement expressed in the statement.


Passage number 310.
 MR. POTTER.  The stronger the housing market is, the more it should support the private-label market coming back and having more capacity. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.9 Let’s go on to the consensus forecast.  This, of course, is still an exercise.  We’re still working to figure out what we’re going to do. You have in front of you the consensus forecast.  If you turn to page 3, and we look at the forecast inclusive of the policy action today, that would be best approximated, I guess, by the line that says, “Plus $750 billion LSAP program.”  That’s the post-action policy forecast, and note that it includes the jointly determined federal funds rate at the bottom.  What I’d like to do is ask each person to say 9 The materials used by Chairman Bernanke are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). one of three things.  Either you broadly agree with the forecast as given or you agree with reservations—let me go back a second.  As part of our exercise the staff, I believe, is intending to write up our discussion as if it were a quarterly monetary policy report, and what they will do is if you agree but with reservations, they will write up your reservations in minutes style describing without attribution what the concerns were that people raised about the forecast.  The other possibility is if you just disagree with the forecast, you should say so and explain why, and then they’ll write up the monetary policy report with attribution—that’s the plan—and say, again, what it is that you disagree about.  Yes, President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply explaining the process of discussing and determining the consensus forecast.


Passage number 311.
 MR. LACKER.  I don’t understand.  Are these two different plans or are these two different options for us.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is a question posed by Mr. Lacker to seek clarification on whether there are two different plans or two different options.


Passage number 312.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Two different options. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You have three choices.  When I go around the table, you have three choices.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that there are three choices available.


Passage number 313.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  We can disagree anonymously or with attribution. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You can disagree modestly and anonymously.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that individuals have the option to disagree with anonymity or with attribution, and that they can do so in a modest and anonymous manner.


Passage number 314.
 MR. LACKER. Modestly and anonymously. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You can disagree violently and for attribution.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage states that someone can express their disagreement violently, but it does not mention any actual disagreement taking place.


Passage number 315.
  [Laughter] MR. LACKER.  And there’s a threshold.  [Laughter] Or is it a trigger.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It only includes a humorous exchange between individuals.


Passage number 316.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Can I bring up just one more thing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage states that Mr. Reifschneider wants to bring up one more thing, and the response is "Yes," indicating agreement or permission to do so. There is no contention or disagreement evident in this exchange.


Passage number 317.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  For those people who strongly disagree, we’re also asking them to submit in the next few days—by Monday—a paragraph or so explaining why, and we will eventually put this into a document and then circulate it back to the Committee.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Is everybody okay. MS. DUKE.  Can I just ask one question about agreeing with reservation.  If we’re comparing it with the $750 billion LSAP program, and in voting for alternative B, I didn’t assume that the purchases went past the end of the year, would that be a reservation. I just want to know how to characterize it.  What does “with reservation” mean. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I think you assume that you should take the Tealbook assumption here, the $750 billion, and say:  Would the economic path shown here be a reasonable approximation of what you would anticipate, given the policy action taken.  And if not, why not. MS. DUKE.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a discussion about submitting opinions and clarifying terms.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 318.
 MR. BULLARD.  Am I agreeing that this is a consensus forecast or am I agreeing that this is actually my forecast.  Because I submitted my forecast. And you can see point for point, you know, where they’re different and where they’re not. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. Mr. Bullard is questioning whether he is agreeing to a consensus forecast or his own forecast, indicating that there may be differences between the two. This suggests there is disagreement or confusion about the forecasts being discussed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 319.
  We’re trying to determine if it is a consensus, and therefore, we’re asking if you yourself find it— MR. EVANS.  Is it close enough.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The phrase "Is it close enough" suggests that there may be different opinions or perspectives on whether something meets the criteria for consensus.


Passage number 320.
 MR. BULLARD.  I think it’s a good consensus.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement suggests that there is agreement among the participants.


Passage number 321.
  It’s not as accurate as— MR. FISHER.  I’m trying to remember my specific numbers.  All I remember is that I was in the central tendency. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  So why don’t you just report what you reported and say if you think it’s broadly consistent with this or not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain contention or disagreement. The speaker is asking for a report to be accurately stated and compared for consistency rather than disputing any information or holding a conflicting opinion.


Passage number 322.
   MR. WILCOX.  This is an effort to ascertain the extent to which participants can affiliate themselves with the consensus forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is simply stating the purpose of the effort to ascertain the extent to which participants can affiliate themselves with the consensus forecast.


Passage number 323.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "Mr. Chairman. Sorry" does not indicate any disagreement or contention, but rather a simple apology.


Passage number 324.
 MR. TARULLO.  I think it’s not unlike what we do with policy statements, which is to say everybody would have written it somewhat differently, but in the end can you kind of go along with it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, that’s what it is.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Mr. Tarullo agrees with the idea being presented.


Passage number 325.
 MR. FISHER.  You said there were three questions.  Do we agree with the forecast.  Do we have reservations.  If so, what are they.  What’s the third. MS. DUKE.  Do you disagree. MS. YELLEN. Do you have a fundamentally different view. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you fundamentally disagree with the forecast.  And remember it’s not about whether you agree with the policy action or not.  This is conditional on the policy action.  Conditional on the policy action, do you agree more or less with the forecast that’s been presented.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a conversation where different individuals are asking questions and seeking clarification.


Passage number 326.
 MR. FISHER.  And if we have reservations, we should submit them.  Is that what you were saying earlier. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, Janet, would you like to comment. MS. YELLEN. If you broadly agree but have some reservation—you’re slightly more optimistic about the forecast, you have a different view on oil prices, but aside from that you basically agree this is a reasonable forecast contingent on the policy path—then say you agree  with reservations.  And the write-up, as in the minutes, will say people have expressed some reservations, but nevertheless associate themselves overall with the view. The staff will write up the discussion of what the reservations were.  But those who just have a basically different view of the forecast should say so, and then there will be a few paragraphs they’ll submit, and that will be included in the document with attribution.  This would be a portion of a monetary policy report where there would be a discussion of the diversity of views.  Think of this as a diversity of views and say 10 people supported the forecast without reservation.  Several people had reservations of the following sort, and four had essentially different views.  Here are the submissions.  In your paragraph, you’d describe and explain why your views are essentially different. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Let me just make sure I understand.  We’re assuming the policy path, this policy action. MS. YELLEN. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is agreement in the passage. MS. Yellen is explaining that if there are reservations or slight differences in opinion regarding the forecast, individuals should express them but still overall agree with the forecast. There is also a discussion about how different views should be submitted and included in the document, but this is not a source of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 327.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Yes, that’s what we are doing today. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  So we’re not having individual “appropriate monetary policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating what they are doing today.


Passage number 328.
” MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. No.  It’s just given what we passed today, is this a reasonable forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It mentions a statement from Mr. Reifschneder, but there is no indication of conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 329.
 MR. LACKER.  Wait.  That’s different than a policy path.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply pointing out that something is different compared to a previous situation or policy path.


Passage number 330.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I’m going to suggest something slightly different from what Chairman Bernanke said, which is:  Given the policy decision today, if you look at the numbers that go along with that $750 billion LSAP program—forget about whether the $750 billion is correct or not because you may think it will end up being $500 billion or some other number—   do you think that’s a reasonable forecast. Is it close enough for talking purposes.  But if you think this is the wrong model of the world, the economy is just going to look a lot different, so much so that you want to, in effect, dissent, then you’re in the third category.  The middle category is a little tougher, but I think the two ends are very clear. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Everybody, this is a trial run.  [Laughter]  We’re trying to find out what works and what doesn’t work.  We may have already found out what doesn’t work. President Fisher, did you have a comment or question or you’re okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 331.
 MR. FISHER.  I’m fine. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You’re fine.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker and Vice Chairman both express that they are fine. There is no indication of any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 332.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. My question was would it be better to try to have a little bit better understanding about what “close to” is or would it be everyone’s personal view of what “close to” is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It’s your judgment of whether you sufficiently disagree that you want to have your name identified.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is posing a question and giving the reader the freedom to decide whether they want their name identified based on their level of disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 333.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But it does matter if people disagree or have different parameters in terms of how close is “close to.”  We can do it either way, but you could argue that if you think the standard error is more than X, then you should disagree, or you could be a perfectionist and you disagree for very minute changes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  So all of this is about reporting.  We’re trying to report the sense of the Committee, and so how you would like the sense of the Committee reported is basically the question. MS. YELLEN. Right.  If we were really doing this, the Chairman would be walking out into a press conference with these numbers, explaining the policy action, and putting these  numbers out to the public and saying, “This gives you a description of how we envision the economy unfolding with the policy decisions.”  And the question is:  Would you be comfortable with these numbers as what he walks out into a press conference with.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

The passage mentions that there could be disagreement or different parameters in terms of how close is “close to." This indicates that there is contention or disagreement among individuals regarding this issue.


Passage number 334.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I understand all of that, but let’s imagine that there’s half the people on the Committee who disagree for very small tolerances and half the people have very large tolerances. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Then no.  It should be meaningful tolerances.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing an understanding of a concept and then presenting a hypothetical scenario, stating that some people may have small tolerances while others have large tolerances. However, there is no explicit disagreement or contention present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 335.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  It would be better if we had a more common metric about what the tolerances are.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The word "better" implies that the current situation is not ideal and prompts for a change or improvement. The phrase "more common metric" suggests that there is currently a lack of agreement or consistency in determining the tolerances.


Passage number 336.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, put it this way:  Are you willing to write two paragraphs for Dave Reifschneider.  [Laughter]  That’s it, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The mention of laughter suggests a light-hearted and jovial atmosphere, indicating agreement or humor rather than disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 337.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  No, no, that’s different.  That’s a fundamental disagreement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The phrase "No, no, that's different" suggests that there is a disagreement or difference in opinion between the speakers. Additionally, the statement "That's a fundamental disagreement" further emphasizes the existence of disagreement.


Passage number 338.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. The way I would put it is this.  If the consensus forecast came out like this, and you were the sort of person who in a speech would say, “I want to make an important point that my personal unemployment rate forecast at the end of 2015 would be one-tenth lower,” then you should say you have reservations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a hypothetical scenario and giving advice on how someone should respond to it.


Passage number 339.
  [Laughter]  But if you perhaps feel uncomfortable about making a big distinction about one-tenth or so, then— VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  There’s a standard error, though, implicit in that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 340.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I think there are two things.  One, there’s obviously a huge confidence interval around this, and so one way to look at it is that many differences just blur. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course. There will always be fan charts.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing the uncertainty and variability of the data ("confidence interval") and how it can affect the interpretation of differences ("many differences just blur"). The statement "Of course. There will always be fan charts" implies agreement or acknowledgment of this uncertainty.


Passage number 341.
  MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  But does it make it a material difference for monetary policy, and the question might be if it’s one-tenth or so off on inflation or unemployment, you would say probably not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It presents a hypothetical scenario and asks for an opinion on whether a small variation in inflation or unemployment would make a material difference for monetary policy.


Passage number 342.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That’s a good way of phrasing it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans, did you have a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The statement "That's a good way of phrasing it" indicates agreement or approval, and the question "President Evans, did you have a comment?" is simply an inquiry.


Passage number 343.
 MR. EVANS.  I was just thinking we should probably start [laughter], and then we’ll figure out— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Excellent suggestion.  All right.  Who would like to go first.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The laughter indicates a lighthearted and agreeable atmosphere, and there is no indication of any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 344.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I endorse it.  [Laughter and applause] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Very good.  Anyone. President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of endorsement and is followed by laughter and applause.


Passage number 345.
 MR. BULLARD. Is it a good consensus.  I do think it’s a good consensus.  There are issues here about the mix between the forecast and the policy assumptions.  The way I did it was I had more inflation coming in the out years, and then I applied the outcome-based policy rule, which would then have the funds rate moving in a different way from here, and so the policy assumption then starts to also look different.  So I’m not quite sure what to make of this exercise.  It’s fine as a statement of where the Committee is, and I would endorse it in that sense.  As a general rule on this whole process, I don’t think that it’s a good thing to get into the business of trying to dissent on a forecast because there are zillions of points here and a lot of subtleties here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. This is why we’re having a trial run.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard is expressing uncertainty and confusion about the exercise being discussed, but he does not disagree with the consensus or express any disagreement with other participants.


Passage number 346.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mildly different, I guess. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard simply states that the situation is "mildly different," without expressing any disagreement or argument with Governor Powell.


Passage number 347.
 MR. POWELL.  Broadly endorse.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 348.
 MR. EVANS.  Conditional on the policy path, I broadly endorse. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  I actually normally would endorse, except that the reservation I would express at this point is that I think 2013 will be significantly lower because of the fiscal cliff. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. MS. DUKE. That would be a reservation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s a good example of a reservation.  Very good.  Anyone else.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. All speakers express agreement or endorsement of the policy path, with the exception of Governor Duke's reservation about the potential impact of the fiscal cliff on 2013.


Passage number 349.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Broadly endorse, but I have a weaker outlook.  So that’s my only reservation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  Broadly endorse. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Williams and Governor Yellen state that they broadly endorse something, indicating agreement. President Kocherlakota's response is not included, so it cannot be determined if there is contention or disagreement from their side.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 350.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. I see what I would term modestly more inflationary pressures than what are in this forecast, maybe one-tenth or two-tenths or three-tenths more in inflation. With that said, it comes back to what the Vice Chairman was talking about, that the choices of the Committee seem to be averse to those kinds of upticks in inflation.  For my own view, I think I would say I see modestly more inflationary pressures than what are in this. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Fine.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota believes that there are slightly more inflationary pressures than what is being forecasted, while the Committee seems to be averse to such upticks in inflation.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 351.
 MR. STEIN.  I broadly endorse the baseline.  I’m not sure if I would be a weak deviator on the conditional effect of policy in the sense that I think that the incremental effect of theLSAP is going to be roughly half of what it’s projected to be.  I’m not quite sure where that puts me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Stein expresses uncertainty about his stance on the conditional effect of policy, specifically the incremental effect of the LSAP (Large-Scale Asset Purchase). This uncertainty indicates a lack of agreement or contention in his viewpoint.


Passage number 352.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  You sound like a “two” to me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 353.
 MR. STEIN.  That feels like a “two” to you. PARTICIPANT.  Do you want to write two paragraphs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.
Explanation: The participants are having a discussion about how many paragraphs should be written, indicating a disagreement or contention about the appropriate length of the written response.


Passage number 354.
 MR. STEIN.  No, I don’t want to write any paragraphs.  I want to hide in the weeds.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren said he broadly endorses.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 355.
 MR. FISHER.  I modestly endorse it.  It might scare people in terms of my forecasting.  I was within the central tendency.  They might want to change their forecast based on where I would be, with the exception of the funds rate, and I’d have to think about that.  But generally, I endorse.  I will say this, Mr. Chairman: Fiscal cliff, no fiscal cliff, et cetera—and I said this in my write-up—going beyond the first part of 2013 is largely pure guesswork. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  In some positive sense, that’s true.  In a normative sense, we do need to find some kind of plan.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply stating his endorsement of a plan and discussing the uncertainty and difficulty in making accurate forecasts.


Passage number 356.
 MR. FISHER.  I understand that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We have to have some kind of projection to base our thinking on.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It simply acknowledges the need for a projection to make informed decisions.


Passage number 357.
 MR. FISHER.  With that caveat, it’s a wonderful exercise. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Obviously, yes.  One of the benefits of this exercise, I hope, is that we will be able to show fan charts that will give some sense of the uncertainty. President Pianalto.  MS. PIANALTO.  I broadly endorse the forecast, although my forecast is slightly weaker for GDP growth and unemployment in the later years partly because, like Governor Stein, the effectiveness of policy is just a little weaker in my forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Good.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 358.
 MR. TARULLO.  I broadly endorse, but two things about the process as opposed to the substance.  One, the issue that arose at the outset that Betsy mentioned is something that people are going to have to think about, which is, what if we emerge from a meeting with a policy action that really isn’t any of the ones that are listed there.  And, secondly, this category two—I have a feeling—is going to be problematic in the following respect. I have heard several people already who might have fit themselves into category two, and if you end up saying, “We’ve got a consensus forecast—14 of the 17 members of the FOMC had qualifications on it,” I’m not sure how powerful it becomes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, the interesting question is whether or not a number of them had the same qualification. If they’re all nitpicks, that’s one thing, but if everybody said, “This doesn’t take enough account of the fiscal cliff,” then that would be something that should be communicated I think.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their endorsement of the process with two concerns related to it.


Passage number 359.
 MR. TARULLO.  Fair enough.  There may be some utility in thinking about moving to a binary system as we do with the statement.  You are either endorsing or you are not, but giving people a chance to comment, so if they say something like Betsy said a minute ago, it could be included in the explanation of the consensus. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s fine.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is suggesting a potential utility of moving to a binary system and expressing agreement with a previous statement made by Betsy.


Passage number 360.
 MR. TARULLO.  But that’s just something to think about.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No.  Thank you.  We are looking for suggestions.  Anyone else.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply shows Mr. Tarullo expressing a thought and the speaker thanking him for it and looking for further suggestions.


Passage number 361.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I agree with Governor Tarullo.  You don’t have to frame it as a reservation.  You can just frame it as where people would prefer to tilt the forecast.  I’m with Betsy on the fiscal restraint. I am assuming that we will get some fiscal restraint next year, and it will be more problematic to the outlook, so we have somewhat weaker growth in 2013.  That said, I think this is a pretty good forecast.  That is why I was getting at the point of, how much do you disagree. I am pretty confident that the economy will be weaker in 2013 than this forecast, but if I take this whole thing in its entirety, I wouldn’t really quibble about it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit disagreement or contention.


Passage number 362.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I have a tiny reservation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Again, the question is, would you object to my hypothetically taking this, putting this on the screen, and saying, “This is the Committee’s consensus forecast of what the economy is going to look like”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing a minor concern or hesitation about something and then asking a question.


Passage number 363.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But it would also be good, though, to say, “A few people thought that 2013 could be a little weaker because” blah, blah, blah.  But I would do it in Governor Tarullo’s two-bucket camp rather than three-bucket camp. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I agree. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thanks.  Anyone else.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker agrees with the idea presented.


Passage number 364.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple introduction or greeting.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 365.
  MR. PLOSSER.  I would say my forecast differs from this, obviously, and I think it is likely to show up in the assumption about current policy.  We are going to see more inflationary pressures and less positive outlooks on output and employment. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker is expressing a disagreement with the forecast mentioned earlier. They believe there will be more inflationary pressures and a less positive outlook on output and employment, which contrasts with the previous forecast.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 366.
 MR. LACKER.  I still don’t have a clear, coherent sense of what policy I am supposed to be conditioning on.  Am I forecasting the Committee.  I think I am.  So on that basis, I might provide a good test case here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage because Mr. Lacker expresses confusion and uncertainty about the policy he is supposed to be conditioning on. He states that he thinks he is forecasting the committee, indicating that there may be disagreement or lack of clarity regarding this matter.


Passage number 367.
 MR. LACKER.  First of all, coming into this, on appropriate policy, I was weaker in 2013 by a couple of tenths.  And I saw inflation a couple of tenths stronger, closer to 2 percent over the next year or two, getting to 2 percent next year. So I would have put policy to raise rates earlier. Modifying that in terms of making it a forecast of the Committee’s action, I would mark up inflation in 2014. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sounds right.  Anyone else.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Lacker about his personal views on appropriate policy and inflation projections.


Passage number 368.
 MR. FISHER.  Can I ask a question on that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply mentions Mr. Fisher asking a question.


Passage number 369.
 MR. FISHER.  Forgive me.  I’m slower than everybody else at the table.  In releasing this, we would be releasing the funds path. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Releasing what.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is simply asking for clarification and expressing his own understanding.


Passage number 370.
 MR. FISHER.  The funds path, the fed funds rate forecast as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement evident in the passage. The speaker simply states that the funds path and the fed funds rate forecast are both relevant.


Passage number 371.
 MR. BULLARD. If you are a year earlier, is that a significant reservation.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The laughter at the end suggests that Mr. Bullard's statement is humorous, but there is no indication of any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 372.
  MR. BULLARD.  A year earlier on the funds rate, is that a significant reservation. MS. DUKE.  But is that a difference in the policy path.  Because the policy path assumes 2015 liftoff.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both individuals are discussing and clarifying the same topic without expressing opposing views or conflicting opinions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 373.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  You could have a different reaction function.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes

Explanation: The phrase "You could have a different reaction function" implies that there are different opinions or perspectives on what the reaction function should be, indicating the presence of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 374.
 MR. BULLARD.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no information provided in the passage, therefore it cannot be determined if there is contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 375.
  But then you’ve got to do your presumably outcome-based— MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Based on the original line of comments where we asked you to condition on the forecast, and you submitted something that had higher inflation, I would have said that you were a “three” because you showed that, conditioned on sticking with the August statement-type policy, you had much higher inflation than this forecast, and that should be exaggerated more based on the policy.  So I would have said that you’re a three.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. This can be seen in the disagreement between the speaker (Mr. Reifschneider) and the person being addressed. Mr. Reifschneider argues that the other person's submission showed higher inflation, while the other person presumably disagrees with this assessment. The use of words like "should be exaggerated more based on the policy" also indicates a difference in opinion.


Passage number 376.
 MR. BULLARD.  But I don’t think I am outside of these confidence bands.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard simply expresses his personal belief without contradicting or opposing any other point of view.


Passage number 377.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I don’t think that is relevant.  It goes back to the question of, do you think that your forecast, from a policy perspective, would be materially different.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states their opinion that the mentioned issue is not relevant.


Passage number 378.
 MR. BULLARD. Again, I just don’t think getting into dissenting on a forecast is a sensible thing to do.  Has the Chairman done a good job of characterizing the center of the Committee.  Yes. I think yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. All speakers agree that getting into dissenting on a forecast is not sensible and that the Chairman has done a good job of characterizing the center of the Committee.


Passage number 379.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I want to make sure I understand.  The next step is to write up a mock quarterly monetary policy report or something like that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  I’m sorry.  Just a description of this discussion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 380.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Right.  But we see how it is going to be communicated, how it is going to be implemented, is that right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.  That’s the purpose.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply a conversation confirming understanding and agreement on how something will be communicated and implemented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 381.
   MR. WILCOX.  Just the diversity of views portion. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  Okay. MS. DUKE.  For the mock exercise, in addition to my own fiscal cliff reservation, can I sign up to Sandy and Jeremy’s reservation about the effectiveness.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. Ms. Duke is adding her own reservation about the effectiveness of the mock exercise, in addition to Sandy and Jeremy's reservation.


Passage number 382.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Oh, sure. MS. DUKE.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Anyone else.  [No response]  All right.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 383.
 MR. POWELL.  I’m on that line between the one and the two for exactly the same reason.  I went with the one, but of course I do have the same reservation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. A question to be thinking about here is:  What would Governor Powell do if he thought that the policy action is weaker than we anticipate, but the underlying economy is stronger, so that the outlook looks okay for him.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply presents Mr. Powell's perspective and raises a hypothetical question for consideration.


Passage number 384.
 MR. POWELL.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Because we are not showing a comparison, right.  We are just showing the ex post.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not showing contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a fact or agreement.


Passage number 385.
 MR.STEIN.  Oh, you’re just showing the ex post. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, that’s the question.  That’s what we’re discussing here.  We haven’t asked the question whether or not you think the baseline is adequate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply clarifying what the topic of discussion is and mentioning that the question of the adequacy of the baseline has not been addressed yet.


Passage number 386.
 MR. FISHER.  You might have to prepare for your press conference. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.  Do you have a question or a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply suggests that the person needs to prepare for a press conference and asks if they have a question or comment.


Passage number 387.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, the plan is, once we get this nailed down, that you would then refer to it in your press conference. Is that correct.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And then, we are hoping at some point to have a monetary policy report.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It is a statement and a question about a plan.


Passage number 388.
 MR. FISHER.  Which you would still refer to the consensus forecast in. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Nothing is nailed down.  One possibility, which Governor Tarullo alluded to, is that we can’t do this in a timely way because we don’t know what the policy action is going to be soon enough, in which case it might be something that only appears in publication with the minutes, for example, three weeks later.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the possibility of a delay in publishing the policy action due to uncertainty about what it will be. This is a hypothetical scenario and the speaker is not expressing any disagreement with anyone else's viewpoint or statement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 389.
 MR. FISHER.  I agree with Governor Tarullo, by the way.  He makes an excellent point.  My next question would be:  Could you summarize what we just discussed as though we were at a press conference. It probably would be difficult at this juncture. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I would say that this is the forecast of the Committee.  A few people disagreed, thinking that these policies would lead to higher inflation.  Most people agreed with the broad contours, except they pointed out a few issues related to the fiscal cliff and the efficacy of policy.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. The statement "A few people disagreed, thinking that these policies would lead to higher inflation" indicates that there is contention among the members of the Committee regarding the potential impact of the discussed policies on inflation.


Passage number 390.
 MR. LACKER. I’m a little confused.  Someone used the phrase “a diversity section.” But you, at the beginning, described—I think you did in this context—a minutes-like document, and in the minutes, of course, when they discuss participants’ views, the different views are sort of woven into the main narrative.  I wasn’t quite clear on what you guys— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I just learned about this five minutes ago myself.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing confusion and seeking clarification about a topic that was just introduced to them.


Passage number 391.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay. Great. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But I think the plan is to have a document that describes the consensus forecast, gives its main feature, and shows it in a minutes-type discussion: “The Committee discussed it. Most agreed with it but raised the following points anonymously. President Lacker thought that it was a bunch of garbage.”  [Laughter]  And that would be the content.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The laughter at the end suggests that President Lacker's statement is not meant to be taken seriously and is more light-hearted in nature.


