****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 1.
 MR. DUCA.  That’s an excellent question.  If the ratios of consumption to income and wealth to income were stable, then one could estimate an equation like Daniel’s over a period where the relationship held in first differences.  The problem is that that relationship is not stable if one uses a definition of income that excludes the income from assets.  Personal disposable income includes capital gains on stocks and housing, as well as income from dividends and interest, and as a result, in consumption equations and consumption functions, if one includes a measure of income with property income and puts in wealth, one in a sense is double-counting wealth.  If one takes out property income, you see a big change, bigger swings in consumption to income.  For example, the blue line shows what happens if you include property income—not much movement.  The red line shows bigger swings, and because the relationships are not stable, if one properly measures income, in our opinion, then one needs a more detailed approach.  That’s why we break out income into the different components, and that’s why we test for these other factors. I would like to add that a lot of people have found that it is important to disaggregate wealth.  For example, Rick Mishkin’s paper with J. R. Kearl demonstrated a long time ago that debt has a bigger effect on consumption per dollar than does, let’s say, a rise in stock wealth, and there are a lot of other models out there that do that.  We look at things a littlebit differently.  We estimate over a long period because there are several things going on.  We want to sort out what’s the effect of swings in credit availability, stock wealth, and housing wealth.  If you look at a narrow time frame, there are too many things moving together, so it’s hard to disentangle that.  I’m sorry for the long answer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting a different approach to measuring income and wealth in relation to consumption than what is commonly used. They argue that including property income in the measurement of income results in double-counting wealth and leads to unstable relationships. They also mention that disaggregating wealth is important and cite an example where debt has a larger effect on consumption than a rise in stock wealth. This contradicts the commonly held belief that stock wealth has a significant impact on consumption.


Passage number 2.
 MR. COOPER. Basically, the point of what we’re doing is, we’re trying to address whether the consumption forecast has been and is too optimistic based on some unknown factor, and the conclusion is that unknown factor doesn’t really seem to be there.  We’re not really trying to get into a debate about whether there’s a credit crunch or not, although one of the advantages of looking at the microdata is that, to the extent something is going on and you believe that there is some credit channel, you really should see it when you’re breaking out the households into high-debt or low-debt households or homeowners versus renters; we just don’t see that there. The other thing I’d add—and I don’t really want to get into a debate about the data—is that a lot of the aggregate analysis I present holds up with alternative definitions of income.  If you use labor income in the regressions that I have with the microdata, the results are very similar. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating the purpose of their analysis and clarifying that they are not trying to argue about a credit crunch or debate the data. They are simply presenting their findings and discussing alternative definitions of income.


Passage number 3.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I want to follow up on Governor Raskin’s question.  First, Dan used a definition of deleveraging.  I’m just curious whether the definition that he used would be one that you would use, because the term is used differently in the literature.  I think, actually, in this case it does matter because some people use deleveraging to mean that it is policy-invariant—that is, that we just have to wait for the passage of time for people to pay down the debt.  Using that definition, Dan draws the policy implication that it’s not just a case of waiting for time to go on, but actually there may be things that policy could do to affect some of thefundamentals.  Second, he drew a little bit more of a policy context than the other presentations.  Would you agree that if a lot of it is explained by some of the fundamentals—either disaggregated or not disaggregated—that is something policy can do something about, or would you be more comfortable thinking of it as policy-invariant.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It simply presents different perspectives on the definition and implications of deleveraging and asks for clarification and agreement.


Passage number 4.
 MR. DUCA.  One of the things that we have found is that debt has a large effect on consumption.  The estimated effects really haven’t changed much if you estimate through, let’s say, 2007 versus, let’s say, 2010 or 2011.  In that sense, the effects may not be all that different, but they’re large.  And the disaggregated approach has the advantage of taking into account that a debt overhang can have a damping effect on consumption that lasts for a long time.  That’s why we prefer that. With respect to write-offs and looking into this whole issue of write-downs of underwater mortgages, I haven’t done enough on that to really hazard a guess.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 5.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  I would say that I have a slightly different definition of deleveraging than the one that Daniel uses, and essentially what I said in the presentation is that when household asset values change or net worth changes, that could induce households to change their repayment behavior through means other than foreclosure.  They may choose to accelerate payments on their mortgage or choose to pay down their credit card balances as a reaction to a change in asset values.  Now, I believe that Daniel would not consider that deleveraging because asset values are a fundamental, but in my presentation I referred to that as deleveraging.  That’s a slight difference in the definition, which might bring a little more consistency between our two presentations.  That said, looking forward, in both our views I would believe, the path of asset values and net worth of households is going to be important in determining how much future debt paydown we see. I’m not sure whether it has direct policyrelevance right now, but it may be a cautionary note in thinking about how consumption and saving are going to evolve in the future.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is some contention in the passage. Mr. Haughwout and Daniel have a slightly different definition of deleveraging. Mr. Haughwout believes that when households change their repayment behavior in response to a change in asset values, it can be considered deleveraging, while Daniel does not consider this to be deleveraging. This difference in definition brings a slight inconsistency between their two presentations. However, they both agree that the path of asset values and net worth of households will be important in determining future debt paydown.


Passage number 6.
 MR. COOPER.  I don’t really have a whole lot to add to that other than to say that Andy’s and my definitions are somewhat similar to the extent we’re looking for people who are actively deleveraging or actively choosing to pay down debt beyond what’s going on with foreclosures and default and other things.  One point, though, is that you can actually get shifts in the debt-to-asset ratio without any effect on consumption.  For example, someone with sufficient assets could choose to use some of their assets to pay down their debt just through a balance sheet reshuffling without having any particular change in the consumption.  I would not consider that deleveraging. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Cooper is simply adding his perspective and clarification to the discussion.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 7.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have a couple of broad questions for you to react to.  First, assuming that you save to achieve wealth rather than saving for its own sake, the level of interest rates might affect what you see as your appropriate level of savings.  Obviously, if real rates are low, you need to save more to achieve your net worth objectives. How do you think the low level of real interest rates should affect the outlook given your work in this subject.  That’s my question number one.  The second question is income distribution has changed pretty dramatically over the last couple of decades, and you could imagine a situation in which the individuals who are accruing income could be behaving very differently than those who are actually getting squeezed in terms of income growth.  When I looked at what you presented, that was all mushed together, and there was no income distribution channel.  I’d like to get your thoughts on that.  And then finally, I want to amplify what President Rosengren asked.  Daniel’s comments that there was no independent deleveraging effect seemed to have a pretty strong  implication for the outlook.  But John and Andrew, I didn’t really get that same sense of what the outlook implications of your findings were.  If you could just expand on that, that would be helpful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: The passage contains multiple questions and requests for clarification, indicating the presence of disagreement or contention. The speaker expresses a need for further information or a different perspective on certain issues.


Passage number 8.
 MR. DUCA.  If one estimates these sorts of models using levels and some details, one typically finds that housing wealth has had a bigger effect on consumption as one moves forward in time.  You can see this in the aggregate data.  You can even see it in some disaggregated studies.  Even Daniel’s 2009 study showed that when you estimate a framework that I would find a little more amenable to something in levels, you do see this. Wealth effects are usually drawn out.  They’re not a one-time thing, and using first differences really obscures how wealth can affect things. In terms of real rates, the effects tend to be pretty limited.  We do find that changes in car loan rates have big, short-term effects, and we do try to control for that.  We don’t include any data on income distribution.  It’s hard to do that with aggregate data.  Some other people have been looking into that, but it’s a little difficult because of our federal data system.  We haven’t had consistent data on consumption and consumer spending at the state level over long periods of time, but it is something that my coauthors, Muellbauer and Murphy, and I are thinking about and looking into.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a straightforward description of the author's findings and research.


Passage number 9.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  Maybe I’ll chime in with a couple of observations.  First of all, on the question about saving, one important thing to keep in mind is that for many households the way they save is by paying down debt, and so the notion that the real rate has a relatively simple effect on the way people think about saving is a little bit misleading, as you’re well aware.  We do observe some changes in that saving behavior in the form of debt paydown over this time period.  Second, the consumer credit panel data that we’re using don’t have any information on consumer income, and so I’m not able to say anything direct about that.  However, some of thecharts in exhibit 6 give some indication of the differences across different groups in the economy.  For instance, younger households seem to be behaving quite differently from older households; they are continuing to pay down debt, whereas older households are increasing their balances. It will be nice to have some better income data at the individual level and a big sample to be able to get at some of these questions a little more closely.  Finally, on the outlook, what I would take away as the bottom line from my presentation is that the outlook for asset prices and net worth of households is going to be very important in determining the path of borrowing and likely consumption going forward.  That’s a hard thing to get a handle on—what’s going to happen to house prices in the next five years—but I think it’s very important.  We have a large pool of underwater borrowers and large flows into and out of unemployment—these are situations that may have big effects, in my view, on the outlook for consumption.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's observations and opinions.


Passage number 10.
 MR. COOPER.  I’m going to go in reverse order because I want to agree with what Andrew just said.  As I said in my talk, the outlook for net worth and income really is what’s going to drive what’s going on.  To the extent that falling asset prices are going to have an effect, it could be a place that policy could intervene in terms of trying to help people, if that’s what you’re looking to do.  The other thing I wanted to comment on is a lot of people save not only by paying down debt, but also by building equity in their house.  I don’t have the exact statistics here, but for the vast majority of the people who are in the lower part of the wealth distribution, their wealth is all in housing. To the extent that even with low interest rates people can’t get into new housing because of credit problems or something else, there’s a market failure that potentially has to be addressed to get housing demand back up.  Another channel through which consumption has been bolstered a bit in the past through low interest rates is refinancing. If people are underwater—as Andrew pointed out—and now don’t have the income or whatever toget approved for refinancing, that may be restraining a bit people’s freeing up cash flow for other spending purposes.  Finally, in terms of the income distribution, I touched on that a little bit in terms of the amount of housing wealth they have. I’ve done a little bit of related work while doing this analysis, and basically if you look across the income distribution, you also don’t really see major effects.  But again, the PSID doesn’t have the really high end of the income distribution.  It’s a representative sample, but it’s not like the SCF. The PSID doesn’t oversample the wealthy. It has a poverty sample, but those households tend not to have much housing wealth.  The income distribution is important, but one of the reasons it’s important is because a lot of those people usually save in terms of housing and through potentially paying down debt or building equity in their house. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker simply agrees with previous statements made by someone else and offers some additional commentary and observations.


Passage number 11.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I found all three presentations very useful, and I like the fact that you used different data and different methods of looking at the same set of issues.  That was very informative. I have a couple questions.  The first one —for all three of you—is how do you see your work fitting in with other research that argues that leverage was an important reason both for the severity of the Great Recession and for the sluggishness of the recovery. I’m thinking particularly of the work by Mian, Rao, and Sufi.  They take county-level data and assess the importance of leverage on consumption, and they find that consumption has been much weaker in counties that had many high-leverage households, using the cross-section across counties. This effect causes a significant reduction in aggregate demand the past few years. Again, the question is:  How do you see your research or your work relating to that kind of research.  My second question—and this may be more for Dave Reifschneider, so wake up, Dave [laughter]—I was really struck by one of the summary statements in Daniel’s presentation that the standard relationship linking consumption, income, and net worth should continue to be a reasonable predictor of household spending, and that there’s little evidence that this didn’t hold.  And I was just curious from the point of view of FRB/US—which I see as having these standard relationships between consumption, income, and net worth—whether the model predictions for consumption over the past few years track actual consumption reasonably well or whether there were big residuals. I’m using FRB/US as a typical model of consumption.  Those are my questions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Williams is simply asking the speakers to relate their research to other studies and to discuss the accuracy of a certain model.


Passage number 12.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  Maybe I’ll start by speaking a little bit to the previous literature and Mian, Rao, and Sufi, in particular.  I take that paper to be quite consistent in several ways with my presentation.  First of all, as you point out, they find significant evidence of household paydown of debt outside of the foreclosure process.  They have a similar data set to the one that we’re using.  It’s not quite as good—only 80 percent as good, which is good—and so they’re able to take out the effects of foreclosures on debt declines and get a sense of how much debt payoff there has been.  They find a significant amount, which, again, is consistent with my notion of deleveraging, although slightly different from Daniel’s.  They also find a relatively large effect of debt overhang, if you will, on consumption during the Great Recession and through 2009.  I find the analysis broadly convincing, although they use an instrumental variables approach and I’m not 100 percent convinced about the instrument—but I say that about every instrument, I think. It’s fair to say that their analysis is quite consistent with our results, and I would agree generally speaking with their approach to the question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that the previous literature by Mian, Rao, and Sufi is consistent with their own presentation and findings. They express some skepticism about the instrumental variables approach used in the previous study, but overall, they agree with their approach and results.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 13.
   MR. COOPER.  I don’t really agree that the Mian and Sufi work is consistent with what we do.  Their main thesis is that consumption drops the most in the counties that had the greatest run-up in debt between 2002 and 2006, and they attribute this to deleveraging.  Some of it is a definitional difference, that there’s a run-up and a rundown on debt, and that’s it. But the biggest difference is that they don’t have individual-level data.  They don’t know anything about the individual’s net worth or income or anything else.  As a result, they can’t really distinguish between changes in consumption due to debt and changes in consumption due to net worth.  My interpretation of their results is that a lot of what’s going on is changes in net worth.  Also—and I’ve done this with the consumer credit panel—they find a correlation basically between changes in debt and big drops in employment and big drops subsequently in consumption.  It turns out that places that have big run-ups in debt also had incredibly big drops in residential investment.  To the extent that you believe that there is a multiplier effect, construction workers who get laid off can’t go to the local Applebee’s to buy dinner as frequently, and that in turn cuts down on the income of the waitresses, and it becomes circular.  There’s a potential for a lot of that to be going on, and that’s not something that they can address.  Also, I would agree with Andrew that I find the instrument a bit suspect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. Mr. Cooper disagrees with the Mian and Sufi work and highlights several points of disagreement, such as their lack of individual-level data and their inability to distinguish between changes in consumption due to debt and changes in consumption due to net worth. Additionally, Mr. Cooper questions the validity of the instrument used in their research.


Passage number 14.
 MR. DUCA.  I would like to comment on the breakdown in wealth.  FRB/US breaks wealth down into stock wealth and other wealth.  The other wealth basically includes other assets and then takes into account debt.  Part of the reason for that is that there is a difference in the effects.  Stock wealth has less effect than the other components in FRB/US. Our findings use a three-way breakdown.  It’s a little different, but it’s consistent with the idea that we do see in the data—and a lot of people have found this when you look through the history—that there is a difference in the sensitivities of consumption to the different components of wealth.  Our results   are generally consistent with that notion. Mian and Sufi’s results seem reasonable for autos, but I get a little suspicious about using credit card data to track non-auto retail sales because, as we all know, the payment system and payment media have shifted.  I wonder to what extent the increased use of debit cards and electronic payments has perhaps caused their estimates of the fall in retail sales to be a little low. Nevertheless, their results are consistent with a long history of work showing that debt does have a more potent effect on consumption than asset holdings.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is making a comment and expressing some suspicions, but there is no direct disagreement with any other person or statement mentioned in the passage.


Passage number 15.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  Maybe I could chime in on one more thing.  One of the benefits and one of the things I liked about the Mian, Rao, and Sufi paper is just what John pointed to as a weakness, that is, the MasterCard data.  What I like is that those data exclude mortgage payments, which are probably 30 to 40 percent of homeowners’ income.  If you’re not defaulting, then that payment is going to be roughly stable.  You probably have a fixed-rate mortgage, and your payment is the same every month.  They’re able to take that out of, if you will, the voluntary consumption bundle and look at things like groceries and restaurant meals— somewhat more discretionary expenditure.  I thought that that was a value, and I do believe that those data incorporate debit card transactions on MasterCard debit cards.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their appreciation for a certain aspect of a research paper and explaining why they find it valuable.


Passage number 16.
 MR. DUCA.  Then I stand corrected.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is acknowledging that they were previously mistaken and admitting that they now understand differently.


Passage number 17.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  Well, I’m not sure about that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing uncertainty about something, but there is no indication of a disagreement or opposing views being presented.


Passage number 18.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. On the question about FRB/US, let me answer with FRB/US, EDO, and a number of other staff models because they all tell similar sorts of stories.  FRB/US has an aggregate relationship.  Consumption is related to an estimate of permanent income, which is disaggregated.  It’s also related to wealth, which used to be disaggregated, but these days we just use total household net worth because we haven’t been able to reliably estimate a difference between the two components.  And then there are other cyclical factors that come in.  That equation went way off during the recession, in 2009 and 2010, but since then it has come back on track in the sense that according to the model, there are no longer negative shocks—it’s still tracking back to what would be its longer-run level.  EDO saw a similar pattern.  However, when EDO looks at the unusual weakness in consumption, it parses the data and looks at the pattern of investment and things like that, and it says, “Oh, there was a big adverse shock to risk premiums that hit the economy, and that explains it.” That shock has faded away some. Then if you look at a simpler reduced-form consumption forecast equation—for example, one that the staff uses to prepare the judgmental forecast—it was also off a lot during 2009–10, and it’s now coming back on track. One way of looking at all of those models is to conclude that something funny seemed to happen during the middle of the recession, but now the equations are looking okay.  So, whatever happened, it was transitory. That may be the right conclusion, but I’d throw out a couple of caveats to that.  First, if you’re using aggregate data, the aggregate data are still, in real time, subject to major measurement changes. Income, consumption, and wealth could all be revised a whole lot, which means that the statement “they’re all back on track now” is still open to question.  Three or four years from now, we’ll be able to say that with more confidence, once the tax data are folded in.  The second point is that—again, just focusing on aggregate data—if you did rolling estimates of the coefficients in the models, then you’d say, “Well, they’re not shifting around too much, those look pretty stable.” But rolling estimates of those coefficients can nonetheless send out-of-sample forecasts really whipping up and down in a way that would be very material for the forecast. There’s a tremendous amount of uncertainty about what that aggregate relationship actually is, even using revised data.   And the third point I’d make is that when we talk about these fundamentals, we need to keep in mind how they may be affected by things such as financial innovations and changes in credit availability.  When we take housing wealth—a fundamental—and condition on it, we also have to keep in mind that housing prices went way up, and ask what role did financial innovations have to do with that. What role did tightening down on credit and the demise of subprime lending have to do with bringing house prices down.  Finally, when you are working with aggregate data, there is a tremendous simultaneity problem. Income really isn’t in some sense a fundamental, and wealth in the aggregate isn’t a fundamental.  It’s all part of a system that’s very complicated, and teasing out leverage and credit effects is very difficult. That’s not a critique on what anybody did.  It’s just a problem.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is primarily providing explanations and discussing different models and their findings.


Passage number 19.
 MR. DUCA.  I’d like to add something to what Dave just said.  In some of our work we’ve actually tried to track the downpayment constraints facing first-time homeowners, and it appears that credit standards were, in fact, weakened quite a bit during the subprime boom, and then they got tightened.  So in a certain sense, we may have had a failed financial innovation.  These are time-series data going back to the late 1970s through 2009.  That just supports Dave’s point that when we look at these balance sheet effects, they’re really tracking, to some extent, the structural transmission mechanism of all the things that are hitting the economy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is adding additional information to support a previous point made by Dave, without expressing disagreement or contention.


Passage number 20.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First, I would like to ask a couple of definitional questions that I am sure the economists around the table know but I don’t.  The first question relates to the broader concept of saving and whether pensions are factored into the saving rate for society—not the personal saving rate but the broader saving rate.  Then, how does  the anticipation of pension income or recent fears about Social Security being there or not being there factor into a consumer’s thought process about wealth and net worth.  Any answer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification on some economic terms.


Passage number 21.
 MR. DUCA.  Well, the anticipation of changes in Social Security is a real tough one because obviously, the issue of how to deal with the funding of these liabilities hasn’t been addressed.  That is a very important question, and I think we will have to monitor the spending behavior of the elderly and of their children.  Corporate contributions to defined benefit plans are incorporated into the saving data, but it is imperfect.  We have a lot of shifts in the form of pensions as well, and there is also a lot of uncertainty, depending on whether or not your company is declaring bankruptcy, like the airline I am going to be flying back home on.  It is a thorny issue.  Perhaps Dave may have something to add.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any clear contention or disagreement. It discusses the topic of changes in Social Security funding and highlights some uncertainties and challenges associated with it.


Passage number 22.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Using up a lifeline, is that what we’re doing here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is using a metaphorical phrase ("using up a lifeline") to express a sense of concern or potential negative consequences. However, there is no direct disagreement or contention being expressed.


Passage number 23.
  [Laughter] MR. COOPER.  I don’t know enough about the NIPA definition.  For what I was doing, wealth in the PSID doesn’t include any defined benefit plan anticipation.  But theories based on consumers being forward-looking in their consumption decisions should be based on their anticipations of pensions, and if they don’t think their retirement is going to be there, perhaps they are going to be ratcheting back their consumption and saving more now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states that they don't know enough about the NIPA definition and that their analysis of wealth in the PSID doesn't include defined benefit plan anticipation. They go on to suggest that theories based on forward-looking consumption decisions should take into account individuals' anticipation of pensions, implying that if people are uncertain about their retirement income, they may adjust their consumption and saving habits accordingly.


Passage number 24.
 MR. LOCKHART.  The simpler question, then, is do you define stocks and bonds as illiquid because they are in accounts that cannot be easily tapped.  Because the reality of most stock and bond holdings is they are practically as liquid as pulling down a cash balance.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Lockhart, explaining that stocks and bonds are practically as liquid as cash.


Passage number 25.
 MR. DUCA.  My coauthor from Great Britain uses that term to basically mean assets that are subject to capital gains and capital losses.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a straightforward statement explaining the usage of a term by the coauthor.


Passage number 26.
 MR. LOCKHART.  One more question, if I may, and it’s related maybe a little bit to Vice Chairman Dudley’s question on income distribution.  In a recent reading—I don’t know ifit’s true or not—I read that 40 percent of aggregate consumption is attributable to the top 10 percent of income.  That would suggest to me, if that is true, that the growth in consumption is largely going to be driven by the behavior of the relative few in society.  And, therefore, we ought to be focusing on how that top 10 percent or top 20 percent thinks about wealth, future income prospects, and so forth.  Now, first, is the assertion correct.  And then, how do you factor that into your thinking about the broad question of the growth in consumption.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement followed by a question.


Passage number 27.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT. I can’t speak to whether the assertion is correct, although I am certain that some qualitative fact like that is true—that a large proportion of consumption comes from a relatively small proportion of high-income earners.  One thing I would point out is that the biggest declines in asset values over the past several years have been in housing, and homeownership is, of course, quite concentrated at the very top of the income distribution.  In other words, at the top of the income distribution people are very likely to own homes.  And, thus, these high-income individuals are likely to have sustained significant reductions in their housing wealth in the past five years.  They are probably less likely, though, to have mortgage debt, or substantial amounts of mortgage debt, against that housing, so that there may not be such a debt overhang. It is more of a pure wealth effect possibly, and that would potentially affect their consumption going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is presenting factual information and giving their perspective on how it might affect consumption.


Passage number 28.
 MR. WILCOX.  On the issue of pension funds, the pension fund itself is attributed to the household sector, so a contribution from an employer into the pension fund is treated as part of personal income.  For reasons that are going to seem very confusing, but it makes sense once you have been thinking about it for a long time [laughter], because pension funds are already in the personal sector when the pension fund pays out a benefit, it is a payment within the personal sector, so that is not treated as part of personal income.  The income, as far as the national  income accounts are concerned, took place when the employer made the contribution into the fund.  That got it into the personal sector.  Thereafter, it stays in the personal sector.  Interest and dividend income is attributed to the household sector, so that counts as part of personal income.  I think the comment earlier was right on, which is that theory tells us that households ought to be taking a long-horizon look at the assets that will be provided out of those pension funds in terms of determining their permanent income prospects and, hence, the level of consumption that is appropriate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining how pension funds are treated in the national income accounts. They are stating facts and explaining the reasoning behind those facts, without any conflicting viewpoints being presented.


Passage number 29.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Continuing on the NIPA Jeopardy questions, as we often say internally [laughter], your conjecture that upper-income households account for a disproportionate share of total consumption is correct.  Whether it is exactly the number you just cited, I’m not sure, but that number sounded reasonable to me.  The other thing I would point out is that part of the reason why the SCF oversamples the rich is because they account for a disproportionate share of the total wealth in the economy, a disproportionate share of consumption, and so forth.  It is important to get good information on that, so we try to do that.  Second, in thinking about what that means, we also have to keep in mind that—and this was alluded to a second ago—those upper-income people are the least likely to be affected by any kind of credit constraint or things like that.  They are the ones most likely to be financial planners, so their behavior is likely to be more like a classic optimizing household than, say, someone in the bottom 20 percent of the distribution who is more likely to be liquidity constrained.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of agreement and explanation by the speaker.


Passage number 30.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 31.
MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a comment and a question.  The comment I would make is on exhibit 11 on page 7 of John’s presentation.  John, you expressed some confidence that these ratios were starting to stabilize, especially the consumer debt-to-income ratio was starting to stabilize. Looking at the time-series plots, I’m not sure where I should draw that confidence.  It looks like, for example, the mortgage debt-to-income ratio is still quite elevated compared with where it was in 1996 or so when housing prices started to rise very rapidly.  The consumer debt-to-income ratio also seems maybe not as elevated but relatively elevated. I looked at these pictures, and I was more concerned than comforted by them.  That is my comment. The question, I guess, is for Daniel.  You made the statement that the linkage between fundamentals and consumption looks the same post-2007 as pre-2007.  The one fundamental that is missing from the regressions—and this is something that Vice Chairman Dudley emphasized in his comments, too—is the real interest rate.  The literature I have seen on household consumption typically includes the real interest rate as an explanatory variable.  This is not just an academic comment in the sense that what we are trying to do is push down on that real interest rate, and we have been somewhat successful on that.  The real interest rates are much lower now than they were in 2007.  But that doesn’t seem to have materialized, and your own results seem to show this: It doesn’t seem to have shown up in the kind of faster consumption growth we would like to see because otherwise you would have picked that up as, “Hey, my regressions are different in 2007 than they were before that.” One question is why you didn’t include the real interest rate as an explanatory variable.  And then, couldn’t we see something about leverage as being a reason why consumption doesn’t seem to be as responsive to the real interest rate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota expresses concern and disagreement with John's statement about the stabilizing ratios of consumer debt-to-income and mortgage debt-to-income. He also disagrees with Daniel's statement about the linkage between fundamentals and consumption, specifically questioning why the real interest rate was not included as an explanatory variable and why consumption doesn't seem to be as responsive to the real interest rate.


Passage number 32.
 MR. DUCA.  Why don’t I address the first question. I distinguish between the two—and perhaps you may have misheard me, or maybe I misspoke.  I said mortgage debt is likely to decline further, reflecting persistent problems. I noted that the rate of decline seemed to have been a little slower of late, and I think we all know that, to some extent, that is the end of the robo-signing. But when we look at consumer debt to income, we have seen the nonrevolving component of consumer installment credit rising for quite some time.  Consistent with the loan officer surveys, we are seeing an upturn in willingness to lend—a continuing easing of credit standards for consumer loans.  We are also seeing consumer loan delinquency rates falling to very low levels.  And if we look at the financial obligations ratio material that the Board staff put together, we see that the financial obligations have really fallen as a share of income to levels that are more sustainable, shall we say. I couch these things with “likely.” “Likely,” in my mind, doesn’t mean I am all that confident.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing an explanation of different factors related to mortgage debt and consumer debt, without contradicting or arguing against any other statement.


Passage number 33.
 MR. COOPER. To address your question on the interest rates, the regressions include year fixed effects, so that is going to absorb any of that.  Typically, in the consumption models, we only use the real risk-free rate or something that is going to pick up all the variation in that.  It probably would be interesting to the extent you had data on the interest rate faced by the individual consumer in terms of their ability to borrow or lend, and that might get some interesting cross-sectional variation there. I will say that the year fixed effects are very constant over time if you just plot them.  As to why there isn’t more of a consumption jump from low interest rates, I don’t want to hypothesize too much on that.  One thing that people have suggested is that perhaps some of the people on the margin where it really matters are the ones who are constrained, and they can’t refinance their house to take advantage of the cash flow.  But   just averaging across all households, you are really not seeing much of an effect, whereas I think that it may be there for some people, for sure. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a question about the implications of the findings on the saving rate.  John, at the end of your presentation you gave us two scenarios affecting the saving rate, and the Tealbook forecasts that the saving rate will increase to around 5 percent and then decline to the current rate of about 4 percent.  Are the saving rates that are forecast in the Tealbook consistent with the findings of all three of these studies.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 34.
 MR. DUCA.  I would say our work is consistent with the Tealbook insofar as we are not seeing all that much movement.  However, a lot depends on what is going to happen with consumer credit availability and how well we can track that, as well as what is going on with mortgages.  The other thing I would mention—and I agree completely with what Dave said before—there is a lot of measurement error. The saving rate is a reflection of income, which is measured with error, as well as spending, which is measured with error, and sometimes they compound each other.  I think it is broadly consistent.  A lot depends on what happens with lending conditions, to some extent, and what happens with the housing market, and those are pretty unknown.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It primarily discusses the factors that could impact the accuracy of their work and acknowledges uncertainties in lending conditions and the housing market.


Passage number 35.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT. I will briefly say it is broadly consistent with the view that emerges from my presentation, in the sense that we expect that household paydowns of mortgage debt are going to continue.  They have been quite substantial over the past several years, likely to continue, and that is going to show up as saving.  But, again, much depends, as John said, on the outlook for house prices.  A big jump in house prices could change consumers’ calculus on those issues.  But assuming a relatively slow change in either direction in house prices, we would expect to see more mortgage paydowns as households try to rebalance their balance sheets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply provides information and acknowledges that the outlook for house prices could potentially change consumer behavior.


Passage number 36.
 MR. COOPER.  I don’t really have a whole lot to add to that.  I think that the saving rate is based on the past.  If there are no major fundamental factors impacting consumption, based on my analysis, the saving rate is going to continue on a similar trend to where it is now. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Cooper is providing his analysis and perspective on the saving rate, and Ms. Pianalto thanks him for his input. There is no indication of any disagreement or argument between them.


Passage number 37.
 MR. BULLARD. First of all, let me just say I love this work, and it gave me a lot of perspective on these issues. I just have one question.  We have been talking about definitions of deleveraging and, I want to talk about default for a second.  The general story I have in my mind—and it could be wrong—would be that households are very optimistic about the future, and because of that, they took on a lot of debt because they are trying to smooth consumption between today and tomorrow.  That is why you get the run-up in debt.  Then, tomorrow comes, and income and wealth aren’t as high as they thought, so you’ve got debt overhang.  One reaction to that is to say, “I’m going to reduce my consumption today and pay off this debt.” Another reaction to it is to say, “I’m going to consume what I want today, and I’m not going to pay back my debt.” I don’t see why default can’t be considered one part of the deleveraging story.  You guys, as I interpret it—and maybe I have it wrong—did not want to go in that direction.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 38.
 MR. DUCA.  Let me touch on the issue of permanent income.  We actually do try to control for permanent income and use forecasts of income, and the like, to try to control for swings there.  We don’t see quite that much going on there.  In most of our work we find that for   house prices, for example, that in controlling for expectations of future house prices that the main driver seems to be credit standards that, in turn, fuel price expectations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining their research methods and findings without expressing any conflicting viewpoints or opposing arguments.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 39.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT. I don’t have any objection to thinking about defaulting on debts as a form of deleveraging.  It is clearly a way that households can get debt off of their credit reports and off of their balance sheets.  But it does come at a price, just as the other form of deleveraging—actively paying down debt—comes at the price probably of sacrificing consumption today.  It is quite likely that a default on a debt today will come at the price of access to credit in the future.  Research at the Board indicates that that future could be quite a while before your credit score recovers to the extent that you will be able to get credit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents two different forms of deleveraging - defaulting on debts and actively paying down debt - and acknowledges that both options come at a price. The speaker suggests that defaulting on a debt may result in a future loss of access to credit, while actively paying down debt may require sacrificing consumption in the present. This suggests a potential disagreement or contention regarding the best approach to deleveraging and the consequences of each method.


Passage number 40.
 MR. BULLARD. The household would make a decision about how badly they need access to credit markets in the future against the benefits of just defaulting today.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no explicit contention or disagreement in this passage. It involves a statement made by Mr. Bullard about a decision-making process for households regarding access to credit markets and defaulting on loans. There is no indication of conflicting viewpoints or arguments between individuals.


Passage number 41.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  Exactly.  There is one other dimension and that is that in many states, particularly judicial states, the process for foreclosure is quite long and lengthening.  Therefore, the amount of time between the last payment I make on my mortgage and the time when I actually have to move is extending.  It is kind of rent-free.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any disagreement or contention. It is simply providing information about the lengthening process of foreclosure and the extended time between making the last mortgage payment and having to move.


Passage number 42.
 MR. BULLARD. That is changing the calculus to some degree.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Bullard, but there is no indication of any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 43.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT. It changes the calculus to some extent.  But I would still say that there is still a substantial cost embedded in default, and that is reduced access to credit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that the calculus changes with certain factors, but still believes that default carries a significant cost in terms of reduced access to credit.


Passage number 44.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay. Do I have it right in my head that this is a big issue because the default part of it is a big chunk of the mortgage debt coming down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 45.
 MR. HAUGHWOUT.  That’s right.  There is no question that defaults have been very important in removing debts from household liabilities over the past three to five years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker states a fact about the importance of defaults in removing debts from household liabilities.


Passage number 46.
 MR. COOPER. Default could be part of the story, if you wanted to think about it that way. I agree with a lot of what Andrew is saying.  But the story you describe, if you want to abstract a bit from potential future hits on your credit, is not really going to impact your consumption today.  If you are just wiping away your debt, your point is you are just going to go on consuming as you are.  That shouldn’t really have an impact on consumption.  And, really, what I was trying to get at is a definition of deleveraging where you are trying to find something abnormal that is impacting consumption beyond the normal net worth and income channels.  Again, if you wipe away debt, that is going to show up through a change in your net worth.  I don’t really think that the story you’re telling has much of an effect on consumption.  And, yes, I agree, it also comes at a price. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I would like to ask a quick methodological question, probably more to Dave and David.  The way that Mr. Cooper approached the question was to say, “We have a null hypothesis, which is the standard model, and we are going to test whether these bells and whistles are statistically significant in a classical hypothesis testing sense.” Obviously, that is the way we usually do inference.  But suppose your objective is to minimize the mean squared error of your forecast, which is a little bit different.  Wouldn’t the right approach be—and I am asking this in terms of how you think about this—to look at, on the one hand, the improvement in the in-sample forecast brought about by a more complex model penalized by the number of extra parameters and some information criteria.  And isn’t that the way you should think about it.  Or do you instead use some kind of Occam’s razor and stick with the smallest statistically valid model.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is agreeing with a lot of what Andrew is saying and is seeking clarification on a methodological question. The speaker is discussing different perspectives and approaches, but there is no direct contention or disagreement.


Passage number 47.
 MR. SACK.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  At its first meeting each year, the Committee reviews the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations and the set of guidelines that govern foreign currency transactions. With regards to domestic open market operations, I recommend that the authorization be renewed with one change.  Specifically, the authorization currently allows the New York Fed to undertake securities loans on an overnight basis.  This restriction causes difficulties when there are differences in the holiday calendars of the Federal Reserve and the markets in which the New York Fed operates.  This discrepancy can create operational challenges for our counterparties and reduced participation in our operations around these dates.  To address this issue, I am requesting that the authorization be altered to allow the New York Fed to lend securities on an overnight basis as determined by the trading conventions of the market in which it is operating.  The specific change requested was described in the memo sent to the Committee ahead of this meeting. In addition to this change, I would also like to update the Committee on several items related to the domestic authorization. First, the Guidelines for the Conduct of System Operations in Federal Agency Issues remains suspended.  The System Open Market Account still contains significant holdings of agency debt and agency MBS, and the Desk continues to conduct transactions in agency MBS as part of the reinvestment strategy decided by the Committee. Second, the current authorization allows the Desk to transact in agency MBS for the SOMA through agents such as asset managers and custodian banks.  The Desk has expanded the range of activities it is able to conduct in agency MBS, and it currently does not use outside agents for any trading activity.  Nevertheless, some external services are still needed for a variety of clearing, settlement, custodial, and analytical activities. Third, the resolution authorizing the New York Fed to conduct small-scale reverse repurchase agreement operations remains active.  The Desk continues to conduct such operations for testing purposes, which is useful in part because the counterparty list continues to expand.  It is likely that the Desk will want to engage in small-scale testing for other types of operations, such as MBS sales, as they approach, which would require the FOMC to approve additional resolutions. Lastly, I would like to note an item that will likely come before the Committee for authorization at an upcoming meeting.  Last January, I mentioned that the New York Fed at some point would seek authorization on a proposed policy to address the occurrence of daylight overdrafts in foreign central bank accounts by providing intraday liquidity through daylight repurchase agreements.  We continue to work out specific details around the proposed procedures.  Once those details are settled, I will review this proposal with the Committee and ask for a change to the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations that would allow these transactions with our foreign central bank customers. Let me now turn to foreign currency operations.  For those operations, the Desk operates under the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations, the Foreign Currency Directive, and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations. I recommend all three of these be renewed without amendment.  Please note that the vote to reaffirm these documents will include approval of the System’s warehousing agreement with the Treasury. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Are there questions for Brian.  [No response]All right.  Well, we have two votes.  The first is to approve the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations with the amendment that Brian described.  Are there any objections.  [No response]  Seeing none.  The second vote is to approve, without amendment, the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations, the Foreign Currency Directive, and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations.  Are there objections.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of a recommendation and updates on certain authorizations and operations.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 48.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I respectfully would like to oppose the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive.  This is the position I and my immediate predecessor have taken every three years since 1997. These are the foundations for foreign exchange operations.  Foreign exchange operations—interventions by central banks—have become exceedingly rare in recent years, and for good reason, largely reflecting a sense of futility. If these operations are sterilized but not followed by supporting policy actions, then they are likely to fail to the detriment of the credibility of the central bank. If they are sterilized but followed by supporting operations, they are essentially compromising the independence of the central bank that has had to cooperate with the Treasury and its lead in these operations.  If they are not sterilized, we obviously could have bought U.S. Treasury securities instead, the difference being we are taking on foreign exchange risk to the detriment of the U.S. taxpayer. I believe that, given the history of the past decade or two with foreign exchange operations, we should consider approaching the Administration and seeking to take steps to wind down and dismantle this infrastructure and back away from this central banking practice.  In the meantime, I would like very respectfully use this triennial opportunity to register my hope for better policy by voting against the Foreign Exchange Authorization and Foreign Currency Directive. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you, President Lacker.  You are opposing the first two and not the third. Is that correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker is opposing the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive, expressing his belief that these operations are futile, compromising the independence of the central bank, and detrimental to the U.S. taxpayer. He suggests that the infrastructure of foreign exchange operations should be dismantled and better policy should be implemented.


Passage number 49.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Second. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  I’m now going to open the floor for comments, discussion, or questions.  I don’t think we need a full go-round because we’ve discussed these issues at great length, but I don’t want to inhibit anybody who would like to make a comment or raise an issue.  In particular, the floor is also open for proposed amendments, whether substantive or purely editorial.  Let me be clear that, given the nature of this document, it needs to have very broad-based support to be effective.  For that reason I think both substantive changes to the document or the ultimate adoption require a very high supermajority—essentially a very broad consensus.  Let me now open the floor.  Is there anyone who’d like to raise a question or propose an amendment.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 50.
 MR. TARULLO.  I’m having difficulty putting together your characterization of the statement, Mr. Chairman, with Governor Yellen’s characterization of the statement.  You seem to indicate that it was basically setting down as best we could what we think we currently do within this Committee. I think Governor Yellen used the term “momentous” and indicated a broad agenda that would follow from this statement, and I’m wondering if you could comment in a little more detail on how you see the significance of this statement. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sure. I view this basically as a communication device. That being said, while not representing a change in our policy, it will be a vehicle by which we  can continue the conversation and make sure we clarify among ourselves what we agree on and what we don’t agree on.  Governor Yellen can speak for herself, but this certainly does not represent a change in the weights on our objectives. It does not represent a change in the basic approach to our policy.  It will be a vehicle for discussions in the future about how best to conduct policy.  Of course, we’ll have those anyway, but I view this—and I would like it to be represented by everyone as much as possible—as primarily a communications device and not some break in our approach to policy.  Governor Yellen, would you like to comment. MS. YELLEN. I certainly agree with what you said and didn’t intend to convey a different view. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage between Mr. Tarullo and Ms. Yellen's characterizations of the statement and its significance. Mr. Tarullo sees it as primarily a communication device and not a break in policy, while Ms. Yellen characterizes it as momentous and indicating a broad agenda.


Passage number 51.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman, I just want to go on the record as saying I very much support this statement.  I think it’s the culmination of a lot of long discussions around this table for many years, and in my view, this is not very different from what I would think of as a textbook statement on what flexible inflation targeting is.  I do not see it as an appreciable change in how the Committee actually behaves going forward.  We’ll still have many debates and many arguments about when to tighten and when not to tighten, when to ease and when not to ease. I do think it helps the Fed catch up to other central banks, which have run ahead of the Fed on this issue for quite a long time now, and I very much support the statement.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker expresses agreement and support for the statement without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 52.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I certainly support the consensus statement.  The point I want to make, though, for this to be most effective, it’s really important that we’re all very parsimonious and prudent about how we talk about this consensus statement so that we don’t create confusion. As you said, the goal was clarity, transparency, and  accountability.  The best way to achieve that is to let you be pretty much center stage in talking about this.  If there are 17 different interpretations of what this consensus statement means, that’s very much going to undercut the value of it.  So in my view, you should have the center stage on this one.  The rest of us should serve as the Greek chorus supporting you as our main protagonist. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing support for the consensus statement and suggesting that it would be most effective if the chairman takes the lead in discussing it.


Passage number 53.
 MR. LACKER.  I wanted to register my support for this.  Any one of us could write far more than this about monetary policy.  The resulting 17 documents might not overlap in their entirety, but this is, in my mind, a superb encapsulation of a set of consensus views—where we do overlap, where we do agree—and I see it bringing us together in our discussions going forward.  I very much support it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Other comments.  Governor.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses their support for the document and sees it as a way to bring people together in discussions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 54.
 MR. TARULLO.  I should state for the record why I can’t support the document, and because it comes down to the same thing I’ve said before, I won’t say it at great length. I think the document has made vagueness a virtue to an excessive degree, and there’s a nontrivial risk that what comes out of this will actually be more of a cacophony than a clarification. I hope that doesn’t happen, and it may not happen, but when I compare it with what I think the benefits of the statement will be, I don’t think that a case has been made. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Other comments. [No response] All right. If there are no other comments, I propose to ask for a show of hands.  Let me explain that the records of the FOMC in the minutes will note both the outcome of the broad straw poll and the vote as the FOMC.  Because it is an official action, we should have an FOMC vote as a subset of the vote of participants.  And, again, we are looking here not for a simple majority, but for very broad-based support.  Let me ask: Of all participants, who supports the statement as it stands. [Show of hands] Opposed.  [No response]  Abstention.  [Show of hands] We have 16 in favor, and we have one abstention.  Thank you all.  Thank you to the subcommittee.  This is a very important step.  Again, we should all be cautious in not over-interpreting this document, and we want to give some time to the public to absorb the consequences.  But I do believe this will be an important step for the FOMC and will help us improve our communication and our accountability going forward. Thank you for that.   Shall we have lunch. Lunch is available now.  Why don’t we take 30 minutes for lunch, and let’s recommence at 12:45.  Thank you all. [Lunch recess] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Why don’t we recommence. We’re now up to item 8 on the agenda, financial developments and open market operations. Let me ask Brian Sack to make the presentation. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker, Mr. Tarullo, expresses disagreement and contention with the document, stating that it is excessively vague and may result in confusion instead of clarity.


Passage number 55.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Brian, with respect to panel 4 on page 2, I want to make sure I’m correctly drawing two inferences.  One, which I think you came close to saying, is that the ECB’s new facility for the banks has, in all likelihood, facilitated purchases by the banks of sovereigns from their or the euro zone countries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of clarification or confirmation being sought by Mr. Tarullo.


Passage number 56.
  MR. SACK.  I think that’s correct or, alternatively, has prevented them from selling securities at the pace they may have.  We do think that the LTRO is a large part of the explanation for the performance of the sovereign debt shown in the panel 4.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not show any explicit contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's opinion or perspective on the matter.


Passage number 57.
 MR. TARULLO.  Right, and the second, which is a negative inference, is that the fact that these are two-year rates suggests that anything beyond the LTRO period has not fundamentally been affected over the course of the past couple of months.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is making two points, both of which are stated as facts or observations without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 58.
 MR. SACK.  That’s right.  You’ve not seen the narrowing of yield spreads in, say, 10-year securities or essentially any securities beyond the horizon of the LTRO to the extent that we’ve seen it at the short end of the curve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not suggest any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact or observation about the narrowing of yield spreads.


Passage number 59.
 MR. TARULLO. Putting those two inferences together, improvement, such as it is, is near-term and probably substantially if not totally because of the LTRO.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement made by Mr. Tarullo without any conflicting viewpoints or arguments presented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 60.
 MR. SACK. We do think that the improvement at the short end of the sovereign debt markets has been largely attributable to the LTRO, and that it hasn’t backstopped the entire yield curve as effectively.  You can actually raise questions about whether it will continue to backstop the short end of the curve as effectively as it has so far, given the reasons I cited in the briefing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that there may be disagreement or contention about whether the LTRO will continue to be effective in backstopping the short end of the yield curve. The reasons cited in the briefing could be points of disagreement or contention among different perspectives.


Passage number 61.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only provides a statement expressing gratitude, without presenting any opposing views or disagreements.


Passage number 62.
 MR. KAMIN.  Governor Tarullo, if I can just add onto that.  I broadly agree with everything Brian said.  I think that, less for Italy than for other countries, there have been some much more muted downward movements in 10-year spreads for other sovereign areas, a little bit for Italy and a little bit more for Spain and some others.  So it’s possible that the effects of the LTRO in providing more liquidity, and in some sense improving the broader tone of investor sentiment, may have had some knock-on effects to longer maturities as well, not working mechanically through the wherewithal to purchase, but just through broader sentiment.  But the  issue really is the durability of that sentiment.  If some future shocks develop, the demand for the longer-term securities might just as easily turn south again.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is agreeing with what was previously stated and adding some additional points to support the argument.


Passage number 63.
 MR. TARULLO. But I guess, Steve, the implicit question behind the questions I was asking Brian is:  Has investor sentiment with respect to the probability of repayment of a bond by Italy or Spain 5 to 10 years hence changed at all.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage simply presents a question being asked by Mr. Tarullo regarding the change in investor sentiment towards the probability of bond repayment by Italy or Spain in the future.


Passage number 64.
 MR. KAMIN.  Well, by that metric it’s minutely smaller, but I think in broad terms, most people recognize that nothing fundamental has changed, consistent with Brian’s statement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Kamin, agrees with Brian's statement and acknowledges that while there may be a slight difference in a particular metric, overall, most people recognize that nothing fundamental has changed.


Passage number 65.
 MR. SACK.  Yes.  To the extent there is some improvement farther out the curve, my point was just that it’s an order of magnitude different.  Ten-year Spanish yield spreads to German debt have narrowed 30 basis points since the previous FOMC, whereas you can see the short end has actually narrowed several hundred basis points. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is providing factual information and there is no indication of contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply stating the difference in yield spreads for different time periods.


Passage number 66.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask about the same chart that Governor Tarullo was talking about.  I guess I don’t understand the mechanism involved.  If I’m a Spanish bank, I’m now able to borrow more cheaply at a three-year horizon from the ECB.  Why does that make me more willing to buy Spanish debt.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question asking for clarification.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 67.
 MR. SACK. The story as told by market participants is now you’re assured that you will have that funding for three years.  It allows you to buy the debt, hold it to maturity, and if there’s no default, of course, earn the carry.  You could ask why that is so powerful when the ECB was doing one-year LTROs and presumably would maintain these fixed-rate full-allotment offerings as long as there were liquidity strains in the market. That’s one reason why we’re somewhat surprised by just how powerful the three-year LTROs seem to be.  But that’s the story of market participants—the assurance that the funding will be there over the term of the sovereign debt.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Sack, is expressing surprise and questioning the perceived power of the three-year LTROs, while acknowledging the view of market participants that the funding will be available over the term of the sovereign debt.


Passage number 68.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. If I could just interject, part of this is that from the banks’ perspective, they’re already dead if their sovereign goes down the tubes.  If they buy that debt and earn a positive spread, their chances of survival increase. It’s sort of a doubling down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement explaining a perspective from the banks' point of view.


Passage number 69.
 MR. TARULLO. It’s still providing zero capital.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact that something is still providing zero capital without expressing any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 70.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I see.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple expression of gratitude.


Passage number 71.
 MR. FISHER.  Brian, I’m just wondering, as we go forward, about the informational value of the dealers’ opinion of our policy actions. I’m not surprised to see your first four slides in exhibit 3.  They reflect largely the Fed-speak of particular principals at this table uttered shortly before the dealer survey.  This is maybe not a statement but more of a question.  As we move forward with our own projections and the SEP exercise, I’m just wondering whether or not—expecting that the dealer surveys will probably reflect more what they’ve gleaned, which is the purpose of the exercise on the SEP—they are actually imparting useful information.  That’s a question maybe not to be answered now, but just something to observe as we go forward.  The correlation here between reflecting what’s been said by speakers that have a vote in this go-round and others and what we see in these four charts is not the least bit surprising.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is mostly a statement of observation and a question about the value of dealers' opinions.


Passage number 72.
 MR. SACK.  I would completely agree that FOMC communications are a very important factor shaping the market’s expectations.  I think that’s to be expected.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses agreement with the idea that FOMC communications are significant in shaping market expectations.


Passage number 73.
 MR. FISHER.  It’s more confirmation than imparting new information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is a statement made by Mr. Fisher, indicating that the information being discussed is confirming something rather than presenting new information. There is no indication of contention or disagreement within the statement.


Passage number 74.
 MR. SACK.  Right, and of course, this survey doesn’t at all get into how they arrive at these expectations, what pieces of information they’re using, and what they’re ignoring.  Obviously the information that has been provided to market participants is changing with the decisions that you’re making.  That will all be reflected in this. I’m working under the assumption that it’s still useful for policymakers to understand at the policy meeting exactly what is priced in the markets and what the market participants’ views are. That’s our intention.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply stating their assumption that it is useful for policymakers to understand the market's pricing and the views of market participants.


Passage number 75.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement present in this passage. The phrase, "Thank you," simply expresses gratitude and does not indicate any conflicting viewpoints or opposing arguments.


Passage number 76.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I have a question about figure 12, Estimated Effect of SOMA Balance Sheet on Term Premium. As the footnote says, the effect comes from the way we model it.  As I understand how that model works, the effect on the term premium is declining in the forecast period because, as we’re getting closer and closer to exit, the markets are looking forward at the expected size of our balance sheet in the future. My question is:  Do you have an idea of market participants’ views on what this chart would look like in terms of the effects of our balance sheet policies both currently and going forward over the next couple of years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question asked by Mr. Williams seeking information and clarification.


Passage number 77.
 MR. SACK. We’ve used the dealer survey on occasion to ask about the effects of different balance sheet programs. I think collectively those responses indicate that the market believes the balance sheet programs have sizable effects. Generally speaking, the calibration has probably been close to but a bit larger than what we’ve typically found in internal work.  But we have not asked about the persistence or the dynamics of how they unwind over time.  We don’t know that part. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is describing the collective responses of a dealer survey and discussing the market's belief in the effects of balance sheet programs. There is no evident disagreement or contention in the passage.


Passage number 78.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I have three questions for Brian.  First, just as a mechanical matter— looking at table 18, exhibit 3—you have 635 MBS transactions to get to $98 billion.  Tell me a little bit about the mechanics.  Obviously they’re small lots, but why does it work out that we have to do it in such small pieces. It seems a lot relative to other operations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser is simply asking for clarification and understanding about the mechanics of the MBS transactions.


Passage number 79.
  MR. SACK.  Right.  They’re very different in nature.  Remember, when we do Treasury operations, whether sales or purchases, we run them as discrete operations over FedTrade.  We have all 21 dealers participating, and it has that structure of a very discrete, large operation.  When we do MBS purchases, we transact differently.  We transact over a private trading system called Tradeweb, and we’re more of a participant trading in the market the way a number of other participants trade. Now, that process still involves a competitive process across dealers.  We put out an interest in buying securities, we receive quotes from four dealers, and we choose the best one.  It’s still competitive, but it’s done in a more continuous way, analogous to secondary market trading of other market participants.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the differences in nature between Treasury operations and MBS purchases, and how they are conducted.


Passage number 80.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Okay.  The two more substantive questions relate to my understanding about the LTRO.  This is partly related to President Kocherlakota’s question.  My understanding is we don’t really know who bought these government securities.  Is there evidence on the balance sheets of the Spanish banks or the other European banks that they’ve actually increased their holdings of the sovereign debt. Can we match it up in some way. Is there really data on that or not, or is this just speculation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. While Mr. Plosser raises a question, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 81.
 MR. SACK. We cannot, but the ECB included some charts and text in its monthly bulletin that showed that the participation of individual banks was actually correlated with the funding needs that they face over the next three years. They were arguing that they thought that this was evidence that the LTRO was being used, to some degree at least, as a pre-funding mechanism to address the rollover issue that I was highlighting in panel 2.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply stating a fact about the inclusion of charts and text in the ECB's monthly bulletin.


Passage number 82.
 MR. PLOSSER. It’s sort of indirect though, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 83.
 MR. REEVE. It’s very indirect on what the banks then did with those funds.  We, in fact, do not really have any information on whether or not specific banks have increased their purchases, either of their own country’s sovereign bonds or other euro-area bonds.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is stating a fact about the lack of information regarding the specific actions of banks. It does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 84.
 MR. PLOSSER.  So it’s still a bit speculative as to how tight this link is between the funding and what has happened to these spreads, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not include any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the link between funding and the trend of spreads is still speculative.


Passage number 85.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, absolutely.  We should not underestimate the importance of the LTRO for the assurance on the bank funding side.  I think taking that tail risk out of the market was extremely important.  But I think the question is the extent to which it supports the sovereigns or will continue.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a perspective on the importance of the LTRO for bank funding and raises a question about its support for sovereigns.


Passage number 86.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Right.  That’s really the link I was trying to get at. Going back to yields, I have one more question that I guess is related.  I asked this question last time, and I just want to hear your view.  One of the clear implications from the sovereign debt crisis and what’s been going on in Europe over the past six months has been a degree to which there has been a flight to quality, to the U.S. dollar.  Some of the reduction in yields on U.S. Treasuries, I suspect, has something to do with shifting risks and flights to safety.  Do you have any sense about how to tease that out from other things that are going on in the shorter-term debt markets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a question being asked and the speaker is seeking the view or opinion of the person being addressed.


Passage number 87.
 MR. SACK. It’s certainly very difficult.  Market participants certainly talk about a flight-to-quality effect.  We think it’s there, but it’s hard to calibrate. It’s not showing up in some of the measures we looked at in the past—like the on-the-run premium or swap spreads.  It’s not a flight to absolute liquidity or the most liquid assets, but it could still be a flight into the safest assets—Treasury securities.  Maybe the most relevant information are measures of the term premium.  I think this flight to quality or this investor preference relative to risk would be reflected in the term premium—that is, how much expected return the investor is willing to giveup to hold a risk-free asset.  And it is true the term premium has moved down a lot and is at extremely low levels. One measure of the Kim-Wright term premiums that the Board’s staff uses is at minus 50 basis points, so investors are actually giving up expected return to hold Treasury securities. It’s not clear that the timing of that exactly corresponds with European stresses, but from a bigger picture it is consistent with the story that investors really are seeking the safety of Treasury securities.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents the author's thoughts and analysis on the topic of a flight-to-quality effect and the potential impact on Treasury securities.


Passage number 88.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Okay.  Great.  Thank you very much. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response given by Mr. Plosser is positive and appreciative, indicating agreement or satisfaction with the statement or information provided by President Lockhart.


Passage number 89.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  On exhibit 1, I’m just trying to anticipate what could happen.  Overall you seem to be painting an improved and relatively encouraging picture.  The LTRO is at its limit, is it not, or close to its limit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not show any signs of contention or disagreement. It simply states a statement by MR. LOCKHART about the LTRO being close to its limit.


Passage number 90.
 MR. SACK.  No, it’s not.  As I mentioned in the briefing, they will conduct a second three-year LTRO in late February, and the amount of activity is expected to go up notably among market participants.  And they’re not at their limit because the banks have collateral that can be used to borrow from the ECB.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Sack is simply stating that a second three-year Long-Term Refinancing Operation (LTRO) will be conducted and that the amount of activity is expected to increase. He also mentions that banks have collateral they can use to borrow from the ECB.


Passage number 91.
 MR. LOCKHART. Then if you look at the maturities in exhibit 2, that looks relatively manageable it would seem to me with an LTRO backstop and markets getting more comfortable.  Even if it’s slightly front-loaded, it’s still spread well, and it’s pretty manageable.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Lockhart, expressing his opinion about the maturities in exhibit 2 and the overall manageability of the situation.


Passage number 92.
 MR. SACK. That’s correct. That’s the right interpretation, that the LTRO has been used heavily, could be used further given the availability of collateral, and in that regard can be used to offset these maturing debt payments and assure the banks that they have funding.  Let me just mention quickly, as I noted in my briefing text, the expansion of the collateral that the ECB accepts. That was equally as important perhaps as extending the horizon of the LTRO from oneyear to three years.  That meaningfully increased the capacity of banks to borrow.  And so in a jurisdiction where collateral is becoming a more binding constraint, this is a very important constraint to loosen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply presenting information about the interpretation and use of LTRO and the expansion of collateral accepted by the ECB.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 93.
 MR. LOCKHART. Are there any rating events that are in the relative near term that could go badly in some way and throw this improving picture off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker is asking if there are any rating events in the near future that could have a negative impact on the improving situation. This suggests that there may be some disagreement or concern about the potential outcome of these events.


Passage number 94.
 MR. SACK. The market navigated through the S&P downgrades, which I think were the most meaningful ratings threat in the near term. Regarding sovereign debt, many of the countries are still on negative watch from S&P as well as from other agencies.  So we certainly can’t rule out additional ratings downgrades.  Now, it might be useful to talk for a minute about what that means exactly. If there are ratings downgrades, we never know exactly how markets will react.  We never know the extent to which there is mandate-driven selling by investors, and it is not easy to judge how much pressure it would put on markets broadly.  What it probably won’t do is significantly impair the ability of banks to use the ECB to help fund those securities.  The ECB has loosened its ratings requirements, and it accepts sovereign debt down to a BBB-rating, which means that there is room for downgrades and this debt will still be eligible as collateral to the ECB.  And the ECB has shown, in exceptional cases, it is willing to even suspend that requirement.  I think the big picture here is we could see more ratings actions.  It shouldn’t affect the ability to use the ECB to help fund these securities, but it could have other market consequences that are hard to judge.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply providing information and discussing the potential market consequences of ratings downgrades.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 95.
 MR. LOCKHART.  And one final question, if I may.  How important in this is the negotiation over the haircuts of the Greek debt.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The question implies that there is a negotiation and debate over the haircuts of the Greek debt, indicating that different parties may have differing opinions or stances on the matter.


Passage number 96.
 MR. SACK. I think it is a wildcard—a significant near-term risk event.  The negotiations seemed to get far enough along that they were debating over a final few details.  And one could   wonder if it would really be worth letting the whole thing unravel based on those details. I think there is still a good chance they will get to a PSI agreement and will proceed.  If they do not get to a PSI agreement, though, it raises a lot of questions about what happens next.  If collective action clauses are put into the securities and are used at the default event, it would trigger the CDS.  And it is hard to predict just how damaging that would be to markets.  It is certainly a risk that many market participants are worried about, but it is hard to anticipate exactly what would happen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage presents the speaker's opinion and speculation about the potential outcome of negotiations and the consequences that may follow. It does not include any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 97.
 MR. REEVE.  If I could just add on to that, President Lockhart.  There is a very near-term risk that Greece could default as soon as March, if this deal doesn’t go through and does not get near-universal participation on the part of the private creditors, which seems a rather high hurdle to achieve.  But even if that PSI deal does go through, the prospects for Greece still are full of tremendous risk over the next couple of years because they require another very substantial financing package from the European Union and presumably the IMF as well.  And yesterday the EU finance ministers said that they have no intention of increasing the size of that package that they had agreed on in October.  By our reckoning, Greece just doesn’t quite get there with that amount of funds.  They are going to need more.  It has got to come from somewhere. So we have both very acute near-term stresses related to the Greek deal, but also some longer-term ones.  As a final point, there have been two exceptions to this improvement in market sentiment in Europe since December.  One is Greece, of course, and the other is Portugal.  And we have started to see some contagion from what is happening with the Greece PSI deal now starting to rattle investors who are holding Portuguese debt. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman, did you have an intervention.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents a contention or disagreement regarding the possibility of Greece defaulting and the need for additional financing from the European Union and IMF. The speaker argues that Greece needs more funds, while the EU finance ministers stated they have no intention of increasing the size of the package. Additionally, the passage mentions the contagion effect on Portuguese debt, indicating worries about the situation.


Passage number 98.
VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I agree with Brian.  This has been a positive development.  There are two negatives to note.  One, more and more of the borrowing of these banks is being done on a collateralized basis rather than uncollateralized basis. There is a question of all of the collateral being encumbered.  And, two, the banks are not dealing with one another; they are using the ECB as the intermediary.  So the private-market functioning is definitely not working. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with Brian and acknowledges two negatives aspects of the situation. However, the passage does not present any contradictory viewpoints or arguments.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 99.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I wanted to talk a little bit about exhibit 3, chart 14:  Probability Distribution of First Increase in Federal Funds Target Rate. I don’t know about the rest of you; I found this a little bit disturbing.  If I am interpreting this correctly, and maybe I’m not, this has the December survey showing no probability of the funds rate being raised after the first half of 2014, and then it shows all this probability spilling out in the January survey.  I want an explanation of what the source of that is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses the opinion that they find the information in exhibit 3 disturbing and requests an explanation for the source of the change in probability between the December and January surveys.


Passage number 100.
 MR. SACK.  Right.  In the December survey, when we asked this question, we had 10 quarterly buckets, and the last bucket was Q2 of 2014.  What happened was most of the mass was in that last bucket, so you should interpret that high bar as the cumulative probability of being either in the first half of 2014 or beyond, because our question didn’t go out far enough.  In this survey, we extended it to 2016.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing an explanation of how a survey question was conducted and the reasoning behind extending it to 2016.


Passage number 101.
 MR. BULLARD.  It is kind of hard to tell how much the probability has really changed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing a subjective opinion about the difficulty of assessing how much the probability has changed.


Passage number 102.
 MR. SACK.  Right.  You can only tell essentially by looking at the bars before then.  Clearly, the probabilities assigned to 2013 came down, so the probability of being in 2014 or beyond went up, but we don’t know exactly when. It’s a problem when you don’t actually have enough buckets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is discussing the lack of information and uncertainty regarding the timeframe. There is no disagreement or contention present in the passage.


Passage number 103.
  MR. BULLARD.  Maybe in the future we should have like a 10-year horizon.  [Laughter]  Between December and January, what do you think is the source of putting less probability sooner and more probability later.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: There is no evident contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, is suggesting a possibility for the future and then asking for opinions on the source of a certain probability shift between December and January. There is no conflicting viewpoint presented or apparent disagreement between speakers.


Passage number 104.
 MR. SACK. It is interesting that when you look at markets you have risk assets moving higher.  We could question whether that optimism is warranted or not, but you have it showing up. But rates didn’t move up, and we can see from panel 11 that policy expectations actually got nudged out some.  I don’t know exactly what the source is.  I do think there has been increased discussion of both asset purchase programs and the use of rate guidance to push expectations out.  Perhaps markets have been reading those signals as suggesting that the FOMC is going to be very patient, even though at the same time they are getting more optimistic in other ways.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply discussing the observation that risk assets are moving higher, while rates and policy expectations have not.


Passage number 105.
 MR. BULLARD. I thought maybe the Committee had stuck with the mid-2013 language and that was sort of holding market expectations in a little bit. There was maybe more discussion of adjusting it, but I’m not really sure that the discussion on that really changed, because the discussion by participants here seemed to be that we are going to have to do something sooner or later about the calendar date.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing his uncertainty and lack of clarity regarding the discussion on adjusting the calendar date.


Passage number 106.
 MR. SACK. Right.  Well, I think there is a general sense in markets that the mid-2013 language will be adjusted and will be pushed out, and that the changes in the SEP make this meeting an opportune time to do that.  And perhaps because the Committee has decided to communicate about the funds rate path and, as I said, because some members have been discussing asset purchase programs, expectations were nudged out.  Of course, this is not a large revision to policy expectations; they were nudged out, but fairly modestly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that there is a general sense in the market that there will be adjustments made to the mid-2013 language and that the changes in the SEP make the upcoming meeting an opportune time for that. It also mentions that expectations were nudged out, but in a fairly modest manner.


Passage number 107.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only consists of a single statement and there is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 108.
MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes.  I had a quick question, which I should have interjected as a two-hander.  Brian, you mentioned that the term premium is down 50 basis points.  That is, I assume, the nominal term premium.  Do you have an estimate available for the real term premium.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Kocherlakota simply has a question for Brian and wants clarification on the term premium.


Passage number 109.
 MR. SACK.  I don’t have one on my fingertips, but I can venture a guess that a lot of the downward movement has been in the real term premium, because we know that real forward rates have fallen pretty meaningfully over this same period that the term premium measures have declined. MS. LIANG. In the asset valuation package, there are estimates of the Treasury term premium, both nominal and real estimates.  And we have three estimates—from the Board staff, New York, and San Francisco.  The nominal term premium estimates run—if I look at the Board staff estimates—about 50 basis points, as Brian said, and the real is just a little bit negative. One of the models is a little more negative, but they are roughly similar.  The nominal is where the big changes have been in the past year or so, reflecting in part safe-haven considerations and in part maybe SOMA. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you, Nellie.  All right. If there are no other questions, we need to vote to ratify domestic open market operations from the December meeting.  Any objections.  [No response]  Hearing no objections, we will move on now to item 9, economic and financial situation, and I will call on Eric Engen to introduce the staff presentation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 110.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The Tealbook’s forecasts in general seem to be on the weak side relative both to the SEP projections as well as some private forecasters.  One aspect of the difference that struck me was business fixed investment, and I would like to get some clarification on it.  In our business outlook survey, the diffusion index for prospective capital expenditures actually doubled from 10 to 20 in January.  I would also note that in the SPF—the Survey of Professional Forecasters—the projections for business fixed investment in 2012 are in the neighborhood of 5.8 or 6 percent, while the staff’s forecast is just barely over 2 percent.  And, indeed, the slowdown in business investment from 2011 to 2012 is actually knocking something like ½ percentage point off your forecasted GDP growth.  What I would like is some insight as to what is knocking you down from 7½ percent, or whatever it is this year, to 2 percent in 2011. Is it add factors. Is it uncertainty.  What’s feeding through in your projections for business fixed investment.  That seems to be a very important part of the forecast, so I would like some elaboration on it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser is expressing his disagreement with the Tealbook's forecasts, which he believes are weaker compared to other projections. He specifically mentions the difference in projections for business fixed investment and expresses the need for clarification on why the staff's forecast is lower than others.


Passage number 111.
 MR. ENGEN.  There are two parts of that.  First, on equipment and software, in the recent data, we have seen a slowdown that is consistent with what we had been anticipating for the fourth and the first quarter.  Moreover, we have also seen that although business sentiment measures have improved since the fall, they are still below what they were a year ago, and our judgment is that the uncertainty about Europe and about the overall economy having prevailed for a while has led to somewhat damped expectations for the path for E&S expenditures.  On nonresidential investment, there are two parts to that.  We see drilling and mining structures continuing to rise briskly with higher oil prices and other energy prices, as well as with the new and profitable technologies that they are using.  We did see some bounce-up in nonresidential structures outside of drilling and mining in the middle of last year.  We think that that is primarily transitory, due to some expiring provisions for tax credits for some types of power industries.  And so when we look at the fundamentals in that sector of vacancy rates, restrained credit, and other things like that, we think that we will return to the slow and subdued level of nonresidential investment outside of drilling and mining that we saw earlier last year.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It presents information and analysis about equipment and software slowdown, business sentiment measures, and nonresidential investment.


Passage number 112.
 MR. WILCOX.  If I might just add, you are correct, President Plosser, that the business investment forecast is taking about ½ percentage point off GDP growth this year compared with last year.  That is unrevised from the December Tealbook, so our projection in this regard is just as it was in December. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply adding a statement in agreement with President Plosser's point about the business investment forecast.


Passage number 113.
 MR. FISHER.  I wanted to talk about Europe for just a second because in your presentation we talked about spreads, particularly on Spain and Italy, and we talked about the French banks.  For reasons that may be peculiar to me, I continue to worry about the French primary fiscal deficit and developments that might occur during the course of an election year.  Do we have concerns about France, or am I alone at this table.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher is simply expressing his own worries and asking if others share the same concerns.


Passage number 114.
 MR. REEVE.  No, I don’t think you are alone.  We are actually fairly concerned about all of the fiscal adjustment programs that are in place in Europe, not just in France.  Now, France’s may be at more risk, I suppose, because of the election.  But with the exception of Germany,which is going to overshoot its target for 2011, the rest of them look likely that they will miss it, although in some cases, like Italy, by a small margin. Italy didn’t have much of an adjustment to do between 2010 and 2011, but it has an absolutely massive adjustment to do next year and the following year.  And Spain, which missed its target by at least 2 percent of GDP in 2011, is almost surely going to have to negotiate a revision to its target for 2012, especially in light of the deterioration in the outlook for economic growth. My own preference would be that the whole constellation of fiscal targets would be renegotiated at the European Commission level, with new targets that are a little friendlier to economic growth and not quite so “damn the torpedoes, full steam ahead.” But of course Spain’s initial reaction to missing its target was to announce another 1½ percent of structural cuts.  There is a fine balance around going too far, and the key test will of course be how markets respond to these developments as they unfold.  But, clearly, the whole fiscal situation is one of the main, if not the main, factor that is underpinning our very weak outlook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not have any contention or disagreement. It is providing information and expressing the speaker's opinion on the fiscal situation in Europe.


Passage number 115.
 MR. FISHER.  On the domestic side of the presentation, we referred to a faster snapback scenario.  On the European and the foreign side, the only alternative scenario is basically severe stress or it could be worse than we think.  There is that asymmetry.  Although I would like to hear of happier scenarios, my concern is that the big issue that could drop could be France, and I would urge us to continue to be mindful of the risk that that presents, particularly given what is happening politically in France.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their concern about the potential risks in the European and foreign markets, particularly regarding France. They mention their desire for happier scenarios but voice their concern about the current political situation in France.


Passage number 116.
 MR. REEVE.  I agree that we are much more worried about the downside risks than we are about upside risks.  In December, we did do an upside scenario in the Tealbook.  We fully admit that we could be surprised in the other direction.  And some of the calming of financial markets and a few little upticks in some recent indicators suggest there may be some upside   potential to the outlook, but nothing sounding very strong to us to make us change our basic outlook going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges the possibility of upside risks but states that they do not view them as strong enough to change their overall outlook.


Passage number 117.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 118.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The fixed net asset value of our money market funds, as you know, provides this inefficient, overly large incentive to avoid realized losses on a fund and to get your money out early and run.  I take it the SEC’s proposals are unlikely to include floating net asset value, and I’d appreciate the staff’s assessment of the likelihood that the measures they are likely to propose will buffer the money market funds from the run-like catastrophe that we saw in ’08.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, expresses disagreement with the SEC's proposals by suggesting that they are unlikely to include floating net asset value. He implies that the proposed measures may not effectively prevent a similar catastrophic event from happening again.


Passage number 119.
 MR. GALLIN.  It looks likely that their opening bid on the size of the capital buffers is not going to be particularly large.  We don’t know exactly what they are going to propose.  It will be out fairly soon.  There is the potential for the rules, if they were actually implemented, to make a meaningful dent in the runability on funds. It depends really on the implementation and, in particular, on how the potential holdback provisions are linked to the capital buffers.  If they are well designed and integrated well, you could have a meaningful fix to the situation.  However, we have to wait to see what proposed rule they actually come out with, and then we have to wait to see what happens with the comments, and we have to wait to see what actually gets implemented.  There is a real chance that what would come out would be watered down and not be effective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mainly describing the uncertainty and potential outcomes related to proposed rules and regulations.


Passage number 120.
 MR. TARULLO.  Josh, Jeff, it is probably worth adding that there has been a very big shift in the lobbying center of gravity on this over the past few months.  The hardliners in the money market fund industries who were saying “no changes at all” have gained a bit of theascendancy and knocked out the entities that were trying to forge a compromise. I would actually be slightly darker than Josh on the prospects for something meaningful getting out of the SEC.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply describes a shift in the lobbying center of gravity and expresses a slightly pessimistic view.


Passage number 121.
 MR. FISHER.  Including ad hominem attacks against Eric Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no mention of any contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that there have been ad hominem attacks against Eric Rosengren.


Passage number 122.
  [Laughter] MR. TARULLO.  He is not the only one.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It only mentions that someone is not the only one, which does not imply any conflicting opinions.


Passage number 123.
 MR. LACKER.  On the side of darkness, letters from Jerry Hawke are darkening my inbox these days, as I mentioned to many of you.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It merely mentions the sender of letters, Jerry Hawke, in a casual manner.


Passage number 124.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I had a question about the liability structure of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  The picture on exhibit 12 gives a good snapshot in time, but I am interested in trends in the liability structure.  Has there been a decrease or an increase in the dependence on short-term funding over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 125.
 MR. GALLIN.  In the QS report, we actually had some time series on this on page 6.  The trends have been roughly flat over the past few years.  The more traditional bank-like holding companies—Bank of America, J.P. Morgan, and Citi—have a little bit more of a decline in their reliance on short-term funding, but nothing much for Goldman and Morgan. MS. LIANG.  Can I add just one thing to that.  Their ratios have been pretty flat.  Since the crisis, their assets have shrunk quite a bit.  That is opposed to the deposits, which have been increasing at the bank holding companies, and so their reliance on other types of short-term, nondeposit funding have fallen.  Relative to independents, like MF Global or Jeffries, for example, these are actually quite a bit lower. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley would have more capital and more long-term debt relative to the independents.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Gallin and Ms. Liang are providing additional information to support the same point about the trends in reliance on short-term funding by different bank holding companies.


Passage number 126.
 MR. LACKER.  Two hands. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that there are two hands, followed by the phrase "Two-hander" which implies that there might be something that requires or involves the use of both hands. However, without further context, it is difficult to determine the exact meaning.


Passage number 127.
 MR. LACKER. I know in the case of Bank of America, the asset side is very different as well with respect to liquidity management. You talked about the time-series change and their position.  My understanding is that their liquidity buffers have substantially strengthened at some of the larger firms, if you take into account the assets they hold.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is expressing a statement of fact without any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 128.
 MR. GALLIN.  If you net short-term investments against short-term liabilities, for instance, dependence ratios have come down a lot for some banks.  I have looked at Y9C data, which are not the perfect kind of data that a bank supervisor could look at.  I always am a little nervous about netting out these big, broad categories that may not be perfectly maturity matched, but the supervisors presumably would have the data to look at that in more detail and more appropriately.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their concern and nervousness about netting out certain categories of data, but they acknowledge that bank supervisors would have more detailed and appropriate data to consider.


Passage number 129.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, for one thing, they are holding a lot of reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the reserves being held.


Passage number 130.
 MR. GALLIN.  That’s true.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. This can be determined because the statement "That's true" indicates agreement with the previous statement.


Passage number 131.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You have a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.
Explanation: The passage does not show any contention or disagreement as it only includes the statement "You have a two-hander" without any conflicting statements or arguments.


Passage number 132.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Well, I had another question.  I’m always glad to yield the floor to President Lacker.  He always has such interesting things to say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the speaker is glad to yield the floor to President Lacker, indicating respect and interest in what he has to say.


Passage number 133.
 MR. LACKER. I will yield the remainder of my time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is simply indicating that he is done speaking and will give up his remaining time.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 134.
  [Laughter] MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  My question is about the “Lost Decade” scenario.  The thing I found puzzling about that scenario is that we had continued downward drift in inflation throughout that.  You could imagine a lost-decade scenario that would be maybe slightly different than the one that staff programmed up, one with so much supply-side damage that actually you are going to end up with increases in inflation alongside increases in unemployment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker challenges the scenario that was programmed by the staff and suggests an alternative viewpoint where inflation could increase along with unemployment due to significant supply-side damage.


Passage number 135.
 MR. ENGEN.  Yes.  There is, as I noted, some supply-side damage involved in this scenario in terms of lower participation rates, a higher NAIRU, and lower potential, but not enough to get the kind of result that you were mentioning.  A Tealbook alternative that I didn’t highlight here that may have had a little more of what you are talking about was the “Greater Supply-Side Damage.” It continued with the weak economy, but with greater supply-side damage that policymakers are slow to recognize.  In that different scenario, you then can get a boost in inflation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply presenting different scenarios and their potential outcomes.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 136.
  MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  What would be your thoughts on what would be happening to inflation expectations.  If you look at this dotted line in exhibit 3, it is just heading downward.  How would inflation expectations be reacting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that there is disagreement or contention regarding the direction of inflation expectations. One person is stating that the expectations are heading downward (dotted line in exhibit 3), while another person (Mr. Kocherlakota) is asking for thoughts on what would be happening with inflation expectations. This implies that there may be opposing views on the matter.


Passage number 137.
 MR. ENGEN. We assumed that inflation expectations are anchored.  It is one of the things that keeps inflation from dropping further. If it was the case that you also had a big drop in inflation expectations, then clearly inflation could fall quite a bit further.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is explaining a hypothetical situation and stating that if inflation expectations were to drop significantly, it would lead to a further decrease in inflation.


Passage number 138.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply acknowledging someone's gratitude.


Passage number 139.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As I was listening to the SEP presentation from Joyce, a question occurred to me that relates to the strategic framework statement that we just adopted.  I don’t know if it’s fair game to point this out—you might want to wave it off for another time—but the Committee just adopted what I think is a terrific framework statement about how we conduct policy in line with how we have been doing it.  And I certainly agree with President Lacker that if 17 of us were going to write down one of these statements it would take different forms.  But I think that we found a pretty good intersection of our views.  But looking at exhibit 1, our forecast for the unemployment rate exhibits a long period of substantial deviations above what everybody’s long-run sustainable unemployment rate is, and yet the core PCE inflation forecast has absolutely no overshooting whatsoever embodied in everyone’s forecast.  Then, on top of that, we have the federal funds rate projections that we will be presenting at the press conference tomorrow, and those indicate some people’s tightening begins this year, and then as we proceed more indicate tightening.  A question, particularly if you were to bring out the strategic framework at the press conference, would be:  How is it that we interpret this as a balanced approach to dealing with these substantial deviations.  This could be a defining characteristic of how we portray balanced approach.  I don’t know if anybody has given thought to that.  I didn’t expect this exactly until I saw the projections. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I think it is something we ought to talk about.  The issue you raise is very legitimate. I will let people speak for themselves, probably tomorrow, but I suppose one argument would be that, if you believe that we are out of tools, that would be one explanation.  But if you think we have effective tools, then it is hard to explain that path.  Is that okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 140.
 MR. EVANS.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Mine is just a question.  The Tealbook forecast seems to be way outside of what the central tendency and even in a couple of cases the range, which seems unusual to me. Is this unusual, happening from time to time. MS. ZICKLER.  I think that they are usually a little bit closer than this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their curiosity and asking if the situation is unusual.


Passage number 141.
   MR. WILCOX.  I think this is a little unusual.  I wanted to come back as well to the question of our relationship to outside forecasters, too.  We are a little more pessimistic, though not much more pessimistic.  The Blue Chip consensus projection, for example, of the unemployment rate at the end of 2013 is 8.0, and we are at 8.2.  This is within a pretty narrow range, given the width of our confidence interval.  I would say, yes, we are on the pessimistic side of the center of gravity of opinion, and probably this is a little unusual in terms of our relative position compared with Committee participants. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a comparison between the speaker's projection and the Blue Chip consensus projection.


Passage number 142.
 MR. PLOSSER. I have a two-hander because I want to follow up on the question I asked when we started this off. I wanted to come back to investment because I think investment plays an important role in this somewhat weaker forecast.  I didn’t quite get an answer to the question.  Given where the private sector is on the forecast for business fixed investment, I’m trying to figure out how much of your lower forecast is add factors or judgment calls relative to your investment equations.  Can you give me some sense about how those two things affect your forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 143.
 MR. ENGEN. Certainly there is some judgment in it in the following sense.  When we think about how much we’ve marked down the forecast relative to last June, some of that is direct. As Trevor showed, there is the effect of the exchange value of the dollar on exports.  Some of that is indirect in the sense that we saw that measures of sentiment both for businesses and households went down.  They’ve recovered some, but they’re still pretty subdued.  Risk premiums have risen, and how much to attribute that to more transitory factors and how much is going to weigh on the forecast for a while is always a judgment.  How much of that was directly  related to Europe and how much was other factors as well as how much has weighed specifically on the investment is hard to parse exactly.  But even though businesses in the past couple of years have invested at a fast rate in order to build back up their capital stock to a certain degree, it is the case that we think some of this uncertainty and subdued sentiment going forward will weigh on it.  Some other surveys on capital expenditures that we have looked at, for example those that ask firms what their thinking is on this, indicate that uncertainty and the difficulty in planning long-term projects is part of it, but I can’t give you an exact amount from our forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not present any disagreement or contention. It is simply discussing various factors that have influenced the forecast and the difficulty in measuring their exact impact.


Passage number 144.
 MR. WILCOX.  For what it’s worth, we’re running a little ahead of our preferred staff model.  We’re not add-factoring down the E&S projection to get a lower forecast.  We think we’re taking a small bet that there is still a little bit of pent-up demand for replacement of aging equipment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their belief and strategy regarding the projection of demand for replacement of aging equipment.


Passage number 145.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a polite exchange between two individuals.


Passage number 146.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about exhibit 11 at the bottom, Conditional Value at Risk.  I want to get clarification on what this is showing.  I would say that this is a high reading; what does it mean. In particular, what are the units here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is seeking clarification and asking for an explanation regarding exhibit 11 and its meaning.


Passage number 147.
 MR. GALLIN.  The way I showed the CoVaR—Conditional Value at Risk—is an index, but if I hadn’t indexed it, it would show a dollar amount that the financial system could lose in an extreme but plausible event—for example, a 5 percent tail event loss to the financial system, conditional on an extreme stress event at a specific firm. Again, in that case it’s operationalized with the 5 percent extreme event for a specific firm. It is done firm by firm—the note at the bottom says which banks it is for—and it’s added up for that and then indexed.  It’s a high reading, which suggests that there’s a fair bit of systemic risk right now in the system.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It simply provides an explanation of the concept of CoVaR and its implications for systemic risk in the financial system.


Passage number 148.
  MR. BULLARD. What I’d like to know is how much the dollar value is. But also, we actually had an event in 2008 and 2009, so what does it mean when this thing peaks.  Does that match up with actual loss to the financial system during that period or is that not what’s going on here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is expressing curiosity and seeking clarification about the dollar value and the relationship between the peak and actual losses to the financial system during a specific period. There is no contention or disagreement evident.


Passage number 149.
 MR. GALLIN.  The amount was on the order of something like $150, $250 billion.  There’s a conceptual idea of measuring the risk to the system from a distress at an institution, but you have to operationalize it, and here we have done it with a 5 percent tail.  And compared with what happened in 2008, we’re not doing it at 1 percent tail or a 0.1 percent tail or wherever you think that event actually occurred.  There’s also a question of over what amount of time the loss is being incurred, and in this it’s a fairly short amount of time, like a week or a month.  Of course, over the financial crisis as a whole, the losses were enormous over a longer period of time. The $150, $200 billion that this would look like if it were not indexed may not seem like a large number, but actually the reason I indexed it was because of all of these subtleties of how you interpret it.  I didn’t want that to interfere with the main idea, which is that it has come down some as things like the VIX have come in, but it is still pretty high.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is explaining the measurement of risk to the financial system and the consideration of various factors in interpreting the data.


Passage number 150.
 MR. BULLARD.  I think it’s a potentially useful tool, and I want to get the interpretation clear so we know what we’re looking at when we look at it.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not include any contention or disagreement. It simply states Mr. Bullard's opinion and the need for clarification on the interpretation. Governor Tarullo responds with a thank you, indicating agreement or acknowledgement.


Passage number 151.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I wanted to come back to the question that Betsy addressed to Eric and David on the gap between the Committee’s projections and the staff projections.  I have two somewhat related questions.  One puts you in a bit of a difficult situation.  From your point of view, what has the Committee got wrong or what is it missing as a group.  The answer to that may be informed by the second question, if you could reveal a bit of   your internal deliberations.  That is, you’ve got, in the best Fed tradition, your projection plus something substantially more optimistic and something substantially more pessimistic.  But as you were actually putting this Tealbook together, what was the nature of the actual debate, as opposed to the hypothetical debate, between a lost decade and a really robust snapback that I don’t get the sense many of you actually anticipate.  And maybe the answer would help inform a bit that first question of why the gap—specifically whether your debate was really between where you ended up and where we as a group ended up, or was your debate actually of a different nature with a somewhat more pessimistic but not lost-decade-like possibility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a series of questions being asked, seeking information and clarification.


Passage number 152.
 MR. ENGEN.  Do you want me to take a first stab.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple question and does not involve conflicting opinions.


Passage number 153.
 MR. WILCOX.  I’ll have something, too.  You stab, and then I’ll stab.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Wilcox, is simply expressing his desire to also have something.


Passage number 154.
  [Laughter] MR. ENGEN. It certainly was the case that we were wrestling with how to interpret the incoming data.  Our perception is, yes, that some of the data—labor market, production, and even residential construction—were a little bit better than we expected, and so we were wrestling with the question of whether we were missing a little bit more of a stronger recovery than what we built in.  Part of what we settled on was that the perception that some of the news has been better was right, but we did need to see that for our forecast. To try to illustrate that, the staff has a suite of factor models, which is a way of interpreting a whole bunch of data.  If you go back to October, those models were saying we should be writing down maybe a recession or very, very low GDP growth.  We discounted those at the time.  We needed to see the improvement in the data, which those factor models have shown, to get to where we are at this point.  In the near term, there are also some special factors, particularly defense spending.  That took ½ percentage point out of Q4 and another ¼ percentage point out of Q1.  That’s very much off the general perception radar screens, but we had to go with that.  Thinking more about the medium term, we  would view it as unchanged, and in some ways one of the reasons I presented the faster snapback is that it seems a little more plausible than it did, say, in October when it was harder to put that scenario out and think about, “Well, okay, how could we get there.”  Maybe we are down-reading a little bit too much. A better outcome seems a little more plausible. I would say, in that sense, we are wrestling with this problem of interpreting the data.  Maybe we could be a little bit higher, even though, as we noted, there are some big downside risks out there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is mainly discussing the interpretation of incoming data and the staff's analysis of that data.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 155.
 MR. WILCOX.  I agree with all the considerations that Eric mentioned.  Let me add a few other observations coming from the perspective of somebody who presided over the wrestling.  We struggled with a number of issues, and based on different calls, we could have put a weaker forecast on the table or we could have put a slightly brighter forecast on the table. On the downside, I think it would have been quite plausible for us not to adjust our attenuation assumptions that we featured in the Tealbook box.  We rethought our treatment of the very negative news about income that we had gotten from the BEA.  In the December Tealbook we told you we had attenuated our response to that.  We went back, took yet another look, and boosted our consumption spending judgmentally a couple more tenths over the next year or two on the theory that Eric laid out before having to do with mismeasurement.  We are still very concerned about the potential consequences of the European situation.  I don’t think we have substantial new information since the previous Tealbook, but there would be plenty of reason to draw a more negative inference about the implications of the European situation for the United States.  The third thing I would point to is that, at the moment, we’ve got a substantial tension between the gap in resource utilization that’s implied by the output gap and the unemployment rate gap.  Our output gap is substantially wider than the unemployment rate gap.  We’ve taken the view that we don’t measure either one perfectly.  We put most of our eggs in the  unemployment rate gap basket. If we had the unemployment rate gap coming back into line with the output gap, we’d have an unemployment rate that would be two- or three-tenths higher at the end of the projection period from what we have.  Those are some of the factors that we wrestled with that could have led to a darker outcome than the one that we arrived at. On the brighter side, if I were trying to build the case for a stronger outlook, I think I and many of my colleagues on the staff would have built that case around the decline in the unemployment rate and some encouraging signals from the labor market.  We didn’t choose to go there because we think the preponderance of indicators at this point still counsels caution. Eric showed the quite striking fact that employment gains over the most recent three-month period are about 150,000, exactly the same as in the preceding three-month period.  One can look at a number of the other indicators of hiring and layoff and so forth, and we think most of those other indicators are pointing to, yes, an improvement, but one of more limited scope than is suggested by the decline in the unemployment rate. Those are some of the issues that we wrestled with on the upside and the downside.  Now, to be honest, I don’t know why it is that you all differ from us.  You give us topline aggregates.  We show you all the homework.  You’ve got our worksheets in detail that probably you and I both find excruciating.  I can’t really inform what lies behind your thinking. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  To follow up on that, I wonder whether the other potential difference could arise from the idea that when we do projections, we’re doing them under what we view to be appropriate monetary policy prescriptions.  There is the real possibility that what you guys are doing is making assumptions—and in this case you put those assumptions in footnote 1—but what the Committee is doing is, in essence, putting together projections and then saying to   ourselves, “Well, what do we think appropriate monetary policy would be.”  Some people then may have different views as to what appropriate monetary policy is, and that appropriate monetary policy is going to affect what your numbers look like.  To some extent, the projections that we are doing are projections that aren’t necessarily ones that we think are going to occur, but ones that we think would occur under appropriate monetary policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement or contention in the passage. Mr. Wilcox and Governor Raskin are discussing potential differences in projections and assumptions, which indicates a disagreement or difference in perspective. Mr. Wilcox mentions factors that could lead to a darker outcome, while Governor Raskin suggests that differences could arise from different views on appropriate monetary policy.


Passage number 156.
 MR. WILCOX.  I think that’s right.  You’re positing a normative statement about the right monetary policy, and we’re trying to drive our projection off a positive statement of what monetary policy would be indicated by a particular rule, which is estimated off your typical behavior in the past.  This is what we call the outcome-based rule.  So we’re positing that your funds rate policy will follow the pattern dictated by that particular rule and then conditioning the rest of the forecast on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing an explanation and discussing the process of driving projections based on a specific rule.


Passage number 157.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  But I think Governor Raskin’s idea would have the people with the strong growth forecast having more accommodation in place relative to the outcome-based rule.  Well, we can test that hypothesis and see if that’s true. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It discusses two different ideas - Governor Raskin's idea and the outcome-based rule - without indicating any disagreement between them. Mr. Kocherlakota expresses that Governor Raskin's idea may be worth testing, but this does not imply disagreement.


Passage number 158.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes, to follow up on this discussion, Governor Raskin is exactly right, that the exercise is somewhat different for the policymakers than it is for the staff, and I do think that’s an important consideration.  There is literature on this, and you can check it out.  The other thing we have to keep in mind is how much uncertainty there is around any forecast, especially if you’re talking several years out, but really even if you’re talking one year out.  The amount of uncertainty is actually usually understated around this table.  The confidence bands are gigantic. The idea that there’s a lot of difference between a forecast of 2.2 versus 2.7 is not serious.  The   amount of uncertainty is huge, and those two numbers are not very different.  That’s a consideration when we’re talking about this issue.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It is primarily a statement and explanation of the amount of uncertainty surrounding economic forecasts.


Passage number 159.
 MR. WILCOX.  I agree with President Bullard’s observation entirely, and in fact, we show confidence intervals, which are based on FRB/US stochastic simulations, on page 82 of the Tealbook, and they’re very wide.  They’re quite wide for the current quarter.  We spend a lot of time on what’s called “nowcasting,” which is trying to determine the initial condition.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of agreement and explanation.


Passage number 160.
 MR. ENGEN. I should add that both the faster snapback and the lost decade are essentially within the 70 percent confidence band, even though they have been characterized as markedly different. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  This wasn’t the reconciliation I was hoping for.  [Laughter] Any other questions. [No response] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I want to broach a question about the projections with participants.  In our minutes for the December meeting we said not only that we would provide quantitative information about our expectations of rates in the future, but we also said we’d provide qualitative information about balance sheet policies.  And my concern is that the SEP question was probably inadequate to elicit much information; basically we asked you if you agreed with the Tealbook.  The Tealbook baseline has no additional purchases, so that people who agree with the Tealbook could include people who would never undertake further purchases or could include people who are quite willing to undertake further purchases if the situation was worse than the mode. For purposes of the minutes and so on and based on many conversations around the table and bilaterally, I’d like to suggest three short statements that I believe characterize our views, and I would like to see if you are comfortable in using them as a qualitative description on thissubject. The first, I think, is uncontroversial: “There is a diversity of views on the Committee [laughter] about the potential efficacy and desirability of additional asset purchases.” The second one is perhaps more controversial.  I would say: “Most participants would set a fairly high bar on further purchases if the economy continues to improve, but are prepared to take further balance sheet measures if it is judged that employment is not making sufficient progress toward our assessment of the maximum level or if inflation shows signs of persisting below its mandate-consistent rate.” So I’m saying that most participants would be prepared.  It’s pretty qualified.  And then the third one, which I think also is not so controversial, is that many people observed that the balance sheet should be linked to federal funds rate policy according to the principles we described last June in our minutes.  I don’t want to get into an extended discussion.  I’m perfectly prepared to drop this, but I was hoping to get a little bit more substance for the purposes of the minutes in particular.  Reaction. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their concern and suggesting some statements that could be used as a qualitative description.


Passage number 161.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. The one question I have is on the words “fairly high bar.”  Is that going to be taken as changing where the Committee is headed. You could use different language like “does not expect if the economy were to continue to improve.” That would be a little bit less forward leaning.  “Fairly high bar” means there’s an impediment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing their uncertainty and seeking clarification on the meaning of the phrase "fairly high bar".


Passage number 162.
 MR. BERNANKE.  “Does not expect” I think is probably more negative.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is a straightforward interpretation of Mr. Bernanke's perspective, indicating his expectation about a particular situation.


Passage number 163.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I’d just like us to think about that language, because right now the market basically has about a 55 percent probability of further asset purchases, which is actually helping to keep financial conditions more accommodative.  If we say something that suggested that we’re significantly further away from that expectation, we’re going to essentially de facto tighten financial conditions, which I would argue our forecast doesn’t call for.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m not trying to change market expectations here, and if it’s in the minutes, of course, it will have to be approved by the Committee.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the author's thoughts and intentions regarding the language used in relation to market expectations and financial conditions.


Passage number 164.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I would just raise a question about whether the “fairly high bar” is really quite the right characterization. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do others have reactions.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage is asking for others' reactions or opinions about a statement. It does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 165.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Yes, I’m maybe on the other side of the sentence from Vice Chairman Dudley in being slightly concerned about characterizing the majority being “prepared.”  Could we not say “would consider” or something that signals that there would be deliberations around this in the future, and that minds are not closed, but not go so far as to say “prepared.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I was trying to balance the “fairly high bar.” Forget the first part about the bar and just say, “Most participants would consider further purchases of the economy if employment is not making sufficient progress,” something like that. PARTICIPANTS.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show contention or disagreement. It is a dialogue where Mr. Lockhart is expressing a slight concern about the wording of a statement, and participants respond with agreement to his suggestion. There is no clear disagreement or conflicting opinions expressed in the passage.


Passage number 166.
 MR. FISHER.  I do think that’s an improvement.  This goes back to the question I asked Brian.  I think the reason that the market is expecting further accommodation through greater asset purchases is because that’s been expressed.  The Vice Chairman of this Committee has expressed it, the Vice Chair of the Board, and some others at the table.  That was the Fed-speak I referred to.  These are powerful voices.  They condition markets.  I’m a little concerned we may be reading into the dealer survey or “market expectations” hints that individuals, albeit important individuals of this Committee, have been giving the marketplace.  I think the refinement that Dennis suggests is better.  Obviously, all of us would consider whether we are for it or against it.   It’s more encompassing and accurate.  I would agree with the amendment President Lockhart put to the sentence. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I don’t think this is fruitful to continue now, but we’ll see what we can do in the minutes to get something people are comfortable with.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of Mr. Fisher expressing his agreement with the refinement suggested by Dennis and the amendment put forth by President Lockhart. Additionally, Mr. Fisher expresses concern about the market potentially reading hints from important individuals on the Committee.


Passage number 167.
 MR. EVANS.  Mr. Chairman, could we perhaps opine on that tomorrow during the policy go-round. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That would be fine.  That’s a good point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Evans and the Chairman agree that discussing the point tomorrow during the policy go-round would be fine and a good idea.


Passage number 168.
 MR. EVANS. Get a better survey of what everybody’s thoughts about forward guidance through the minutes, at least. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Remember we’re not here trying to come to a Committee decision, obviously.  We’re just trying to get a bit of a feel of what people’s stances are.  Anyway, it will be an improvement if people will comment on that in the go-round.  That will give us a little bit better sense, we can record that in the minutes, and we will have made our promise to give some information about that.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing a desire to gather more opinions and information on a particular topic.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 169.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Can I ask David just a quick question.  Why did the Tealbook not assume another round of asset purchases.  I’d like to understand the thought process.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker is questioning the decision made by the Tealbook not to assume another round of asset purchases and expresses an interest in understanding the thought process behind it. This suggests a disagreement or a difference in opinion regarding the decision.


Passage number 170.
 MR. WILCOX.  Designing our monetary policy assumptions is always a delicate task, which we try to undertake with some sensitivity to staying as much as possible out of the way of prejudging Committee actions, and it would probably overly dignify it to call it art, but it was our judgment that the more judicious approach was to assume, until further guidance from the Committee, no further asset purchases as the most neutral, bland, beige approach that we could take.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their methodology for designing monetary policy assumptions and stating that they have chosen a neutral approach until further guidance is provided. There is no indication of disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 171.
VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But saying that doesn’t mean that the staff is somehow opposed to further asset purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents a statement that suggests the staff is not opposed to further asset purchases. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 172.
 MR. WILCOX.  What we have attempted to do as a regular standard operating procedure is to drive the funds rate trajectory, as I was discussing earlier, off the outcome-based rule and to leave existing portfolio policies in place, and that has been our standard practice.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage is describing a standard operating procedure followed by MR. WILCOX. There is no indication of any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 173.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So there is no signal in that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is describing the absence of a signal and does not express any opposing viewpoints or conflicting ideas.


Passage number 174.
 MR. WILCOX.  No.  It is by design intended to try to be as signal-less as possible.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is explaining that something is intentionally designed to be free of signals.


Passage number 175.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Fair enough.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "Fair enough" is a colloquial phrase used to indicate agreement or acceptance. It does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 176.
 MR. ENGLISH. I’d point out we did send a memo to the Committee that said you could do a $500 billion MBS purchase program, and if you did, here are the effects of that on financial conditions and on the economy.  There’s an addition problem that can be done that yields what the effect of that would look like.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of fact regarding a memo that was sent and the expected effects of a potential MBS purchase program.


Passage number 177.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes. I accept that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  We have on the agenda an opportunity to make comments on financial stability issues, and we have a couple of people who would like to do that.  Why don’t we do that now, and then we will take a break.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The individuals in the passage are discussing the agenda and the order of tasks to be done.


Passage number 178.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think the financial stability report was very good this time, not in terms of the outcomes and the concerns but in terms of the thoroughness and directness at which you address some of the issues.  That’s really beginning to gel, and I really appreciate the effort in making that work. I liked the structure that you had in the very beginning, which began with a LISCC portfolio and then went to the broker–dealers. What struck me as interesting is the LISCC organizations that you focused on all had large broker–dealers.  As I looked at exhibit 11 that we were shown today in the briefing, it was   interesting to note that the market equity ratios of both Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were quite low, but in the previous CCAR exercise Goldman Sachs was viewed as relatively well capitalized, whereas Morgan Stanley was viewed as poorly capitalized.  Then I noted the observation that you made that hard-to-value assets are continuing to be financed by broker– dealers with short-term financing.  And the observation that Vice Chairman Dudley made that during a crisis, like what’s happening in Europe, central banks tend to be the counterparty to a lot of organizations—that they choose not to transact with each other, they tend to transact with the central banks.  As I put all of these strands together, along with what you put together for the broker–dealers, the question that I came up with is:  Is the broker–dealer model sustainable if we have a European crisis. I’d start with asking whether you share my concern about the broker– dealer model being sustainable in a crisis.  What was not in the report was how we could mitigate those concerns. Noting the disparity in capital between Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, if your concern is that organizations aren’t going to want to transact with them and they’re highly dependent on overnight financing, then it would be something like altering the repo market, altering what kinds of investments they could make, altering their liability structure. If you could give me more of a sense of what you think would be right and what more we could do, because it is troubling to have such important organizations having credit default swaps as high as they are. MS. LIANG. We would agree.  We are connecting the dots, in some sense, the same way you are.  We don’t have a full assessment.  Part of why we think stock prices are so low and CDS spreads are so high for these institutions is related to the question of whether they have an ongoing business model that is viable when short-term funding markets are stressed and under Dodd–Frank and the new regulatory regime where proprietary trading is coming off the table.  There is a little less trading activity; we don’t know how much there will be going forward.  I think that very much is an issue, and that is why we were highlighting it.  There are a couple of ways to address that.  There are issues about the triparty market and the repo market.  Are there ways to make that somewhat safer. There are the intraday exposures and the industry task force, but are there other ways to address some of the funding problems in short-term markets. I think money funds are a big part of that.  They are a big source of the funds.  They aren’t the only source.  There are a lot of non-2a-7 funds and other cash pools that we are just starting to try to understand.  Those are long-term policy initiatives—money funds, triparty. On crisis management, which is more near-term if something were to arise, there are ongoing discussions with supervisors in other countries about how one does recovery or resolution for these types of institutions if stresses really escalate.  Currently, because many of them operate cross-border and their funds in good times tend to flow between the different entities, everything is fine.  The concern is if stresses rise and the home-country supervisor wants liquidity there, then it starts to get dispersed.  Having those conversations up front about how one would address that is ongoing.  I don’t have anything terribly reassuring to say here, except long-term reform and some attention to possible crisis management issues. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I guess the Basel III liquidity rules might be of some help over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Rosengren, expresses appreciation for the thoroughness of the financial stability report and raises concerns about the sustainability of the broker-dealer model in a European crisis. Ms. Liang agrees with Mr. Rosengren and discusses potential ways to address the funding problems in short-term markets. She also mentions ongoing discussions about crisis management for cross-border institutions.


Passage number 179.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. It doesn’t really apply.  The securities firms actually are in good shape vis-à-vis the Basel liquidity rules. MS. LIANG.  The way the rules currently are designed, the securities firms look great, and the commercial banks do not.  Because they fund with triparty repo, and a large part is Treasury collateral, that doesn’t seem to be penalized in the current version of the LCR.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that the securities firms are in good shape in terms of the Basel liquidity rules and points out that the current rules do not seem to penalize their funding with triparty repo and Treasury collateral. Hence, there is agreement on the positive state of securities firms' compliance with the rules.


Passage number 180.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, Mr. Chairman.  I had a quick question for Vice Chairman Dudley.  When Draghi took over as the head of the ECB, there was a lot of uncertainty about how he would view the crisis, what kind of role he wanted the ECB to play.  Do you think markets have formed a view that maybe he is willing to play a more active role than they might have thought in November.  And that might be part of the reason for things being a little more quiet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 181.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I will just give you my view, and the Chairman and Governor Yellen might have other views that they want to express.  My view is that he has been very mindful of not going over into the fiscal space by having the ECB expand their bond purchase program in any way.  In fact, if you look at the numbers in terms of the amount of  government bonds purchased by the ECB, they have actually been pretty small.  He has escalated in the dimension of what central banks can do and what is clearly within the province of the ECB as far as providing liquidity at term against a broadened collateral set.  And he has been more aggressive in broadening what a normal central bank could reasonably say, “This is my province.  I’m not stepping out into the fiscal space.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is simply stating their own view and acknowledging that the Chairman and Governor Yellen may have different views.


Passage number 182.
” MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Great. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m not sure about the fiscal part.  He is playing a careful game.  He has actually been very hawkish fiscally, and I think the purpose of that is to give comfort to the Germans in particular, in the hopes that they will, given these reassurances, be more forthcoming themselves.  It is a complicated game.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing the actions and motivations of someone else without expressing any conflicting opinions or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 183.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. At least verbally he has been quite hawkish on the fiscal side.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 


Passage number 184.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Well, I meant that he wasn’t actually doing things by the ECB that could be construed as fiscal policy.  He has certainly spoken about fiscal policy quite a bit. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Would anyone else like to talk about financial stability. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that the individual in question has spoken about fiscal policy, but clarifies that they are not actually implementing actions that align with the European Central Bank (ECB)'s fiscal policy. The last sentence is an invitation for someone else to discuss financial stability, indicating a cooperative or collaborative tone rather than disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 185.
 MR. LACKER.  Just a comment about Vice Chairman Dudley’s comments about the broker–dealers. I appreciate the threat they pose and the extent to which they still rely on pretty short-term funding and are vulnerable to runs.  It strikes me that they have it within their capability to make themselves invulnerable to runs.  We may not have the actual legal capability, except by clearing a very high bar for 13(3) programs, to come to the rescue of their creditors. But I would question whether that is fully appreciated by their creditors, and I would question whether general market supposition is that our lawyers would find a creative way—would they,   Scott.  I question whether market participants don’t believe that we would find a way to provide support.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, questions whether the broker-dealers fully understand the limitations of the Federal Reserve's ability to provide support to their creditors in the event of a financial crisis. He also questions whether market participants believe the Federal Reserve would find a way to provide support regardless of those limitations.


Passage number 186.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I do think market participants are very unclear about one particular thing, which is the ability of the big banks that have broker–dealers attached to fund their securities brokers versus the broker–dealers that don’t have big banks attached.  It seems like the market takes quite a bit of comfort for Citigroup and Bank of America from the retail franchise when, in fact, the ability of the bank to use that franchise to fund its securities broker is extraordinarily limited under 23A.  I don’t think the market fully understands how big a barrier 23A is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is expressing their personal opinion about the market's understanding of the ability of big banks to fund their securities brokers.


Passage number 187.
 MR. LACKER.  I would point out that this configuration of ambiguity about whether we could or would, with market expectations that we could—that incompatible set of beliefs is combustible. It is exactly what drove our hand in Bear and all of the other bad cases.  And that ought to be a real broad concern for us. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Anyone else.  [No response]  Okay.  Why don’t we take 20 minutes and come back at quarter to 4:00 p.m., and we will do the economic go-round.  Thank you. [Coffee break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Why don’t we reconvene.  Let’s begin now with the economic go-round, and I have President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker expresses his concern about a potential issue, and when no one else responds, the conversation moves on to the next topic without further discussion or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 188.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The Tealbook is little changed from last time and is forecasting substantial shortfalls on both elements of the mandate.  At the end of 2013, the unemployment rate is 8.2 percent and the PCE inflation rate is 1.3 percent.  My own forecast is virtually identical to that of the Tealbook, with PCE inflation of 1.4 percent and an unemployment rate of 8.1 percent at the end of 2013, albeit with an easier monetary policy assumption for appropriate policy.  In fact, most other mainstream forecasters share that outlook. Macroeconomic Advisers, J.P. Morgan, and Goldman Sachs all expect similar large misses on both elements of the mandate.  Even the four DSGE models predict 2013 inflation at 1.2 percent or less. Despite the high degree of uncertainty, there is surprising agreement that over the next two years, we will fall short of both elements of our mandate. This large miss is consistent with an economy continuing to face substantial headwinds as a consequence of a severe recession and significant financial problems.  One of those headwinds is the continued weakness in residential investment, which did not occur in previous recoveries.  I commend the staff and Governors Raskin and Duke for highlighting that our policies would be more effective if we had a more effective housing policy.  Proactive fiscal and monetary policies could potentially shorten the adjustment period in housing, which would likely have collateral benefits to other components of GDP, such as consumption.  Small business hiring and investment have also been laggards in this recovery.  While recently there have been increases in bank lending to large businesses, small business lending remains stagnant.  Similarly, when you look at private-sector job gains and losses, the net job gains have been for businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees, with the smaller employers continuing to have net job losses.  New business creation is difficult when home equity lines of credit and credit cards are not as accessible as in previous recoveries.  In fact, most banks are looking for collateral for a new business, such as residual value in the owner’s house.  Small business lending is another area where proactive monetary and fiscal policies could reduce the current barriers to lending.  For example, resumption of some of the programs used by the SBA during the recession might   make it easier to start new businesses or expand small businesses.  Both would support our mandate of more quickly returning to full employment. A third headwind is the higher-than-normal level of uncertainty.  The risks of an Iranian-caused oil shock, a much more significant financial disruption from Europe, too much fiscal austerity here or abroad, or a further slowdown in China raise the level of uncertainty and are significant downside risks to the forecast.  While we can do little to directly address these significant downside risks, we can try to promote more-rapid economic growth so that we can better withstand any of these shocks should they materialize.  These concerns do appear to be manifesting themselves in real activity.  For example, over the past month, there has been a substantial decline in freight rates for ships that deliver bulk goods such as coal, iron ore, and grain, as well as for ships that deliver containers of more-finished goods.  This is illustrated by the Baltic Dry Index, which has dropped 50 percent over the last month.  The Baltic Dry Index provides a measure of bulk-shipping freight rates for ships of various sizes over the major shipping routes.  Freight rates for ships carrying more-finished goods have also been falling.  Of course, these rates can be affected by a variety of factors, but the current declines are a possible harbinger of an even slower economy than the one presented in either the Tealbook or my own forecast.  Of all of these downside risks, I am most concerned about Europe.  It remains unclear to me what will pull Europe out of its recession.  Europe is more bank-dependent than the United States, and we may be underestimating the likely credit crunch that will accompany their recession, as well as the political turmoil generated by what is likely to be staggering unemployment rates in much of southern Europe.  While there is little we can do to directly influence European outcomes, encouraging stronger growth in the United States is not only   consistent with our mandate, but might also reduce the tail risk of a much worse outcome in Europe.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The speaker highlights substantial shortfalls in both elements of the mandate and mentions that other mainstream forecasters and even DSGE models predict similar large misses. The speaker also emphasizes the need for more effective housing and small business policies, which suggests disagreement with current policies. Additionally, the speaker expresses concern about the risks and uncertainties in the global economy, particularly in Europe. This indicates a disagreement or differing views on the potential impact of these risks on the forecast.


Passage number 189.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Feedback from most of our directors and business contacts was positive regarding recent performance, and there was a notable improvement in expectations across most sectors.  A number of contacts expressed confidence that fourth-quarter momentum will carry into the first.  Nearly 80 percent of our 44 directors reported that they expect the pace of economic activity to improve over the next six months versus the last six months.  This director group represents a pretty extensive footprint, both in the Sixth District and nationally in some cases, given the scope of their businesses.  Overall, I heard more optimism in this cycle than I’ve heard for quite some time.  Of course, we heard expressions of optimism a year ago going into the first quarter of 2011.  Those expectations went largely unmet.  While I’m hearing optimism again now, I’m also picking up something a little different.  Businesses have noted more confidence among their customers, and this is informing their expectations of sales growth.  Firms remain focused on efficiency and productivity gains, but compared with a year ago, more contacts are telling us they have plans to expand and are planning to add to net payrolls in 2012. A few concrete cases in point.  A large national global design-and-build firm noted a new sense of confidence among their clients, which are mostly Fortune 300 companies.  This contact cited resumption of shelved building plans, as well as new projects.  He also, interestingly, noted a rebalancing of location decisions in favor of the United States versus overseas.  A director from a large consulting firm depicted their large-company clientele as showing increased optimism, with many moving ahead cautiously with expansion plans.  A major rail transportation firm ended the year strong, and volume trends have continued to be very positive in the first few weeks of 2012.  This company said that most of their clients are noticeably more optimistic   going into this year than they were in the fall. A large national auto retailer and the auto manufacturers in our District remain very optimistic.  No doubt we are seeing some catch-up in demand from the impact of last year’s supply disruption, along with the more predictable demand arising from an old and aging national fleet.  Continued strength in this sector would be positive for growth.  I think this positive feedback bears watching carefully, as we may be seeing the beginnings of tangible momentum building in the economy.  The recession dug a deep hole in economic activity in the Southeast, and the climb out has been slow.  Nonetheless, the increased optimism is notable, and firms seem to be coordinating on better outcomes.  I acknowledge the need to be a little cautious and not over-interpret the optimism I am hearing in the Southeast.  When I look at the Systemwide survey of hiring intentions just completed, which was mentioned in the earlier presentation—the middle-right chart in exhibit 2—I see that the responses from my District, almost 30 percent of total responses, were generally more positive than the aggregate results presented in the staff report.  Specifically, when compared with a year ago, we’ve seen a discernible pickup in hiring intentions and basically no change in layoff intentions.  In contrast, apparently other Districts overall saw a marked decline in layoff intentions and a small decline in hiring intentions relative to a year ago. The forecast I submitted for this meeting varies somewhat from the Tealbook projection, with the staff’s continued downward adjustment to growth in the medium term.  We see stronger economic growth in 2012 and 2013 than the Tealbook—on the order of about ½ percent each year—and, for whatever it’s worth, less of a jump in growth in 2014.  This view is overwhelmingly supported by anecdotal intelligence I gathered in preparation for this meeting.  Consistent with my outlook for economic growth, my outlook for inflation is also a little higher than what has been marked into the Tealbook.  I don’t see the inflation trend deviating by asmuch, or for as long, from the inflation objective, compared with the Tealbook.  To illustrate, our January Survey of Business Inflation Expectations indicates that firms are anticipating unit cost pressures on the order of 1.8 percent higher over the next 12 months, a shade higher than what they say they experienced over the past 12 months.  But importantly, they’re telling us they can pass these on—that their markups over costs, or their margins, while still soft, have risen with improving sales.  My trajectory for unemployment in my forecast also departs from that of the Tealbook.  The Tealbook has the unemployment rate in 2014 at 7.8 percent, having been raised ½ point from the staff’s October projection, while we see a rate approaching 7 percent by year-end 2014.  As regards the balance of risks, it’s pretty clear that Atlanta’s forecast is more upbeat than the Tealbook’s, and the anecdotal input we’re getting is consistent with that. In thinking about the balance of risks for growth, I decided to keep the risk weighted to the downside because of the still-looming big, exogenous risks—Europe and others—beyond our control that could throttle the economy and kill momentum.  And as regards inflation, I continue to see the balance of risks as balanced.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 190.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Reports from the Fifth Federal Reserve District since our last meeting suggest improvement and are consistent with an outlook for continued growth at a moderate pace.  Our January manufacturing survey just released today showed broad gains, with the overall index rising to 12 from December’s rating of 3.  This is consistent with the same pattern shown by the Philadelphia and New York manufacturing surveys, but I’d remind you that the Fifth Federal Reserve District’s manufacturing sector is bigger than the combined manufacturing sectors of the Second and Third Districts.  Our survey also showed gains in manufacturing employment and new orders, and the six-month outlook strengthened as well.  The nonmanufacturing survey was more mixed, though still broadly positive.  We did see negative readings in many components of the retail survey, although the retail sales revenue index was up from 4 to 24.  Residential real estate activity remains pretty weak in our District.  As much as one-third of recent increases in sales can be attributed to distressed sales, we’re told.  This is understandable.  Several of our banks have reported taking a very aggressive approach to moving REO off their balance sheet. Interestingly, one of our large banks has shifted strategies and is now accumulating conformable mortgages, finding them more remunerative than selling them or than other alternative uses of the abundant liquidity that’s piling up in their deposit coffers.  Commercial real estate is more mixed.  Office vacancy rates declined in most of our metro areas, but Washington is a notable exception.  Consequences of defense spending cuts are taking their toll.  More broadly, anecdotal reports from our directors and a number of roundtable councils that we convene month to month, while still mixed in general, have shown a significantly more frequent reports of optimism and a pickup in activity. My outlook for the national economy is not substantially different from the Tealbook’s— somewhat weaker growth in the current quarter, followed by a gradual strengthening over the next few years.  My inflation forecast is a notch higher than the Tealbook’s, however.  Longer-term inflation expectations appear to be pretty stable at this point, and I hope that the release of our consensus statement should, if anything, help cement those expectations in place.  I think inflation is likely to fluctuate around 2 percent for the next couple of years. I believe the Tealbook places too much weight on measures of resource slack in forecasting the medium-term path of inflation. We all submitted projections for the federal funds rate for the SEP this time.  My forecast is for us to raise rates in the second half of 2013 because I think economic growth is likely to   move close to 3 percent toward the end of that year.  And I think real growth is going to be more relevant to policy than the size of gaps, either output or unemployment gaps, given our uncertainty about the level of the natural rate.  This is a feature of monetary policy that’s easy to overlook, because in many of our standard models, for a given rate of inflation, there’s a one-to-one relationship between the level of the gap and the growth rate.  So you could write policy just as well in terms of a growth rate rather than a gap. In the real world, they vary independently, and I view employment growth as a somewhat more reliable indicator, at this point in the business cycle, of whether we need to tighten or not.  So I’m going to be looking at growth rates, not the level of gaps, in thinking about when to tighten policy.  Just for your information, my projection is that the unemployment rate will average 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013; this places me among the seven respondents to the SEP whose projection for 2013 is inconsistent with the second sentence in paragraph 3 of alternative B. A final note about some terminology.  I don’t know if this is a large miss on our mandate.  I just think that scientifically, we’re uncertain about that, and similarly, it’s not obvious to me that the picture you get from the SEP projections represents a lack of balance. We spent a long time talking about natural rates and maximum employment. What we learned is that there are reasonable estimates that are all over the map, from 5 percent to 7½ or 8 percent.  So I don’t think it’s obvious that the picture you get is so unbalanced or that we’re missing in such a large way.  Given a history of no shocks to the economy in the last couple of decades, could unemployment be better.  Yes, sure.  But given the shocks we got, could monetary policy per se, interest rate policy, have been run in a way that delivered a better outcome. It’s not obvious it would be materially better under some different reaction function or some different policy strategy.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing an overview of recent reports and surveys, as well as sharing their own outlook and projections for the economy. They also express uncertainty and discuss different perspectives, but there is no direct disagreement with anyone else.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 191.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  President Lacker was bragging about his District.  But, Jeff, my biggest company is bigger than your biggest company.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is challenging President Lacker's statement and asserting that his own biggest company is larger than President Lacker's.


Passage number 192.
 MR. LACKER.  No, we’re not giving him the bumper sticker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states that they are not giving someone a bumper sticker.


Passage number 193.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  And thanks to President Fisher for revealing that you’re respondent 14 in the SEP.  I couldn’t have guessed that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage.


Passage number 194.
  [Laughter] MR. FISHER.  It could be worse.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The inclusion of laughter implies a lighthearted or humorous tone, suggesting agreement or a shared understanding between the participants.


Passage number 195.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Could I ask a question. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Go ahead.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The person is simply asking for permission to ask a question, and the response is giving them permission to proceed.


Passage number 196.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Does that mean you hold back monetary policy stimulus so you always have some in reserve. Is that the implication.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The question is asking for clarification on whether holding back monetary policy stimulus to have some in reserve is the implication.


Passage number 197.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That would be the implication of what I’m saying, if you’re worried about that risk.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It simply states a potential implication.


Passage number 198.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. It consists of a single word, "Okay," followed by a title or position, "Vice Chairman."


Passage number 199.
 MR. LACKER.  You said something that referenced something I said, and I think it was a little bit different than what I said.  I mentioned employment growth, and I didn’t say I thought it was more correlated with inflation. I just thought it was a better policy indicator. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 200.
 MR. LACKER.  Bill, first, have any participants altered their economic projections.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The passage does not mention any participants altering their economic projections, so there is no basis for disagreement or contention.


Passage number 201.
 MR. ENGLISH.  For this round. Changed their SEP contributions, you mean.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is a question seeking clarification.


Passage number 202.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 203.
 MR. ENGLISH. There were a couple of changes on Monday.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that there were a couple of changes on Monday without any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 204.
 MR. LACKER.  So that was in the packet we got.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about receiving a packet.


Passage number 205.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No
Explanation: The passage only provides a statement without any conflicting views or disagreements.


Passage number 206.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  Great.  The packet shows, as I said yesterday, that seven participants have a federal funds rate above 13 basis points—but the lowest is 50 basis points— and have an unemployment rate above 7 percent.  You cited a median figure.  I wasn’t quite sure what that median was.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply seeking clarification regarding the median figure that was mentioned.


Passage number 207.
 MR. ENGLISH. It’s the median for the Committee members.  Which sentence.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage only includes a statement made by Mr. English, with no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 208.
 MR. LACKER.  You cited something, a median involving 7 percent unemployment. I wasn’t quite sure I caught what it was.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 209.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes. The median unemployment rate for the year of liftoff varies depending on which set of participants you’re talking about.  It is either 6.9 percent for voters or 7.1 percent for all participants—so, about 7.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply presents two different statistics for the median unemployment rates for different groups without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 210.
 MR. LACKER. The big question I have has to do with these words “currently anticipates” in B(3).
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a question about a specific phrase.


Passage number 211.
MR. ENGLISH.  Okay.  Just to be clear, the package of SEP results that you got yesterday on the table has all of the new results.  The package that was distributed on Monday didn’t have one of the changes that was made Monday evening.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. This passage is simply clarifying the contents of two packages that were distributed on different days.


Passage number 212.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, I got a packet on Tuesday morning.  Is that the same packet distributed Monday afternoon to which you’re referring.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It simply asks for clarification about the timing of the packet distribution.


Passage number 213.
 MR. LUECKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without any specific context or further information provided about the passage, it is not possible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The word "yes" does not provide enough information to explain the presence of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 214.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  Great.  Maybe sometime we could get that updated.  The big question has to do with “currently anticipated.” Paragraph B(3) has the condition that “this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate” as long as three conditions are met, and the sentence says that the Committee “currently anticipates.” So the word “currently” there suggests that at some future time, given future data, it could be the case that we no longer anticipate that interest rates will be exceptionally low under those three conditions.  And yet this forward guidance language is widely interpreted as a commitment by the Committee.  Today’s Wall Street Journal said the Fed is committed to keeping interest rates low until at least mid-2013, and the same sort of “anticipates” language is used with regard to the year—“Committee expects”—right.  So I’m just wondering.  You helped draft this language.  Do you view this as a commitment—that we’re saying that we’re going to behave in a way that in some circumstances would be other than what we’d want to do then, or is this merely a forecast of our future behavior.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification and asking for the views of the person who drafted the language.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 215.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I would have said it was primarily a forecast of future behavior, your expectations today, but it may have a very small element of commitment because you’d be hesitant to change something you’d put out there.  But for the most part, this is, as it says, the Committee’s current anticipation.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker, if I could just interject.  If we do accept either of these kinds of forward guidance languages, I will be making clear in the press conference opening statement that it’s not intended to be a commitment, that it’s entirely conditional.  Now, I think there is a little bit of a difference between the 7 percent language and the simple date language.  The simple date language is obviously very contingent on changes in the outlook, and we reflect it in changes in the SEP projections from quarter to quarter.  The language that is contingent on economic outcomes should be a little bit more permanent because it’s more about our reaction function than it is about the state of the economy.  It could accommodate an earlier or later date.  It’s also a threshold, not a trigger, and so there’s flexibility in that respect, but I even in that case think one reason to play down the commitment language is that we all recognize that we can’t entirely mechanize these decisions.  I know that a number of people are interested in rules, et cetera, but we can’t entirely mechanize.  There may be other considerations that would be relevant, and so for that reason, we have to leave ourselves flexibility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. President Lacker disagrees with the idea that forward guidance should be seen as a commitment, emphasizing that it is conditional. He also suggests that the language used for forward guidance should be more permanent when contingent on economic outcomes, while still allowing flexibility. Overall, his perspective differs from Mr. English's view that forward guidance includes a small element of commitment.


Passage number 216.
 MR. ENGLISH.  One other thing that might be worth saying is that I think that the date language that was added in August had an effect on expectations. It was read as meaning that the Committee perhaps really did have a slightly different reaction function than had been thought.  But since then, as data have come in, that date has moved around. In particular, it’s moved back a fair amount.  So I don’t think that it would be read as immutable.  It would be read correctly as subject to revision as the data change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. English is simply stating his opinion on the effect of the added date language in August and how it may have changed expectations. He also mentions that the date has since moved back and is subject to revision as data changes.


Passage number 217.
 MR. LACKER.  So your interpretation is that in August, the market reaction was that it learned something about our reaction function, but subsequently the reaction to data surelyreflects a sense that the future evolution of the data is going to be different given our reaction function.  Is that how you interpret movements since August.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement explaining a possible interpretation of market reactions.


Passage number 218.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Since August.  Yes, I think that’s right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 219.
 MR. BULLARD.  Just on that point, I think there is an alternative interpretation of what happened in August, which is that there was tremendous market turmoil at that time.  There was the July 29 GDP report, which marked down the path of GDP through the recession.  A simple interpretation is that that’s what pushed out market expectations of our time of tightening, and it didn’t have much to do with whether we put “2013” in the language or not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing an alternative interpretation of an event without directly contradicting or opposing any other viewpoint.


Passage number 220.
 MR. ENGLISH.  But there was an announcement effect with the release of the statement.  On that day, there was a pretty noticeable move in Treasury yields, for example, or in fed funds futures, and so I think the statement itself did seem to do something.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that there was an announcement effect with the release of the statement and highlights the noticeable moves in Treasury yields and fed funds futures.


Passage number 221.
 MR. BULLARD. I think it was an extremely volatile market situation. It’s hard to interpret what happened, but one interpretation is that there was a recession scare right around that time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating their personal opinion about the market situation and acknowledging that it is difficult to interpret what happened. They also mention one possible interpretation, without contradicting or refuting any other viewpoint.


Passage number 222.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Also, volatility came down for the short-dated yields after our announcement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states a fact that volatility decreased for short-dated yields after a certain announcement.


Passage number 223.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: The word "absolutely" is used to assert agreement or confirmation, indicating that there is no disagreement or contention in the passage.


Passage number 224.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So something was going on there from the announcement. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The relevant point, though, is, was this viewed as an ironclad commitment.  If it was viewed as an ironclad commitment, then the rates would not have responded to subsequent developments, which they did.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The author is simply posing a question and explaining the criteria to determine if a commitment was viewed as ironclad.


Passage number 225.
MR. BULLARD.  Well, you’re saying that sometimes what the Committee says moves the market, and then other times, the market is moving the date of liftoff independently because of changes to the data. I’m saying that the data were very volatile around the August meeting. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply presents two different viewpoints or explanations for why the market might move in response to the Committee's statements or changes in data.


Passage number 226.
 MR. LACKER.  Can I follow up on that.  This other hypothesis about August is that it conveyed our sense of future economic data as much as it conveyed information about our reaction function, and the same thing plagued interpreting March 2009, right. We don’t know whether they’re taking a signal from our read about the economy—gloomier than they thought we’d read the economy—or it’s the reaction function.  Do you have a way of teasing that out. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It doesn’t matter.  They’re both in there.  When we said “extended period,” we said we think conditions will be such that low rates will be justified.  So that’s saying something both about our expectations of economic conditions and about our reaction to those conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a discussion about different hypotheses and how they may be interpreted.


Passage number 227.
 MR. LACKER.  Oh, I know it does, but as a matter of logic, there are two separate effects going on:  how they’re updating about our reaction function and how they’re updating about the data, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Instead, it presents a statement followed by an explanation or clarification.


Passage number 228.
 MR. SACK.  I think if it were seen as a significant downgrade to the forecast, you probably would have seen a meaningful decline in equity prices on the announcement, which I don’t believe happened.  I do believe it was interpreted as a defining signal about policy intentions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  We’ll continue with questions, but I just want to make sure everybody will have a chance, of course, to comment on the whole situation here.  Two-handers.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 229.
   MR. FISHER.  I think we have to be very careful about what we ascribe any market movement to; markets don’t work that way.  I did read Bill’s paper pretty carefully, and by the way, it’s a thoughtful presentation. I really appreciate it.  You talk about the number of basis points.  Again, we’re talking about one-hundredths of 1 percent.  Now, the shorter you are on the yield curve, one can assume that you wouldn’t have a market impact.  I think President Bullard’s point is very good, and President Lacker raised a very good point.  It’s not clear what you can ascribe things to.  The question is the effect over the longer term.  I do believe we have suppressed the yield curve.  I don’t believe we’ve done it alone.  It’s happened in circumstances relative to what’s happened elsewhere.  We’ve seen additional oomph come from what’s happened in Europe and our relative performance. But I think we have to be extremely careful. We might observe an event occurring, but ascribing it to what is said at this table, particularly with immediacy, may be reading too much into the data.  The data are helpful, but at least for what it’s worth, again, as a former market operator, you never know what moves the market, and I think we take too much credit for immediate reaction. It’s what we do on a sustained basis over time that is impactful, and I do believe we send signals to the market, clearly, that we expect to repress any tightening of policy for a substantial period.  That takes time to factor into the market.  The explanation as to why we do it is, as pointed out earlier, also very critical.  But I would urge the Committee, again, from one person’s perspective, not to read too much into any immediate market reaction because on any one minute, any one second, any one day, the market reacts to a multiplicity of factors that none of us understand.  That’s the way markets work.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no explicit contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is cautioning against attributing market movements to specific factors and emphasizing the complexity of market reactions. They also highlight the importance of sustained actions over time and urge the committee not to read too much into immediate market reactions.


Passage number 230.
   MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First of all, I want to say that I appreciate the staff’s responsiveness to my questions from the last meeting and am very much looking forward to the fruits of their labor.  I have a quick question about alternative A, which is about capacity constraints for those kinds of purchases.  Alternative A talks about $500 billion of purchases through, I think, January 2013, and I was wondering, if one wanted a more accommodative alternative A, how high could we go in terms of that number without impairing market function.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of appreciation and a question for clarification.


Passage number 231.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Do you want to respond, Brian.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The given passage does not contain any point of contention or disagreement. It simply mentions a question being directed towards someone named Brian.


Passage number 232.
 MR. SACK. Purchasing $500 billion through January involves purchasing at a pace of just over $40 billion a month.  We’re comfortable that we could do that program through January of 2013 without significant market consequences, but we couldn’t do it for a number of years.  I think our best judgment is that sometime in the second year, we would become quite concerned about market functioning.  At that point, our purchases would be outrunning the amount of gross supply, so we’d have to be extracting holdings from other holders.  And the deeper we have to go there, the more significant types of market disruptions we think can occur.  So I would say that if the Committee were intent on carrying that pace of purchases for a second year or beyond, we’d want to entertain the possibility of shifting some of the purchases into Treasury securities, in addition to MBS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing their analysis and opinion on the potential consequences of continuing a specific purchasing program.


Passage number 233.
 MR. EVANS.  Brian, what do you mean by “market disruptions”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a question asking for clarification on the meaning of "market disruptions."


Passage number 234.
 MR. LACKER.  Thanks, Chuck.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
This passage does not contain any statement or indication of contention or disagreement. It is a brief response thanking someone named Chuck.


Passage number 235.
 MR. SACK.  I know President Lacker likes that question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Sack is aware that President Lacker enjoys a certain question.


Passage number 236.
  [Laughter]   MR. EVANS.  Well, it didn’t seem to me as though going in and purchasing from somebody who owned the asset already would be a disruption.  So we might have different interests here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the speaker, Mr. Evans, does not see purchasing from someone who already owns the asset as a disruption, suggesting that there might be different interests between the parties involved.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 237.
 MR. SACK.  I think when market participants talk about this, they confuse two issues that we want to separate very carefully.  What we’re not talking about is having a bigger market effect.  I think that would be a positive development and presumably an intention of the program.  What we’re talking about is a loss of liquidity in the market itself, a loss of the ability of private agents to transact in the market, and we had an episode of this in the first round of mortgage purchases.  We bought an awfully large portion of the gross issuance in certain coupons—fours, four-and-a-halfs.  At one point, we tried to buy an additional amount of higher coupons, five-and-a-halfs, in which case we had to pull securities out of the stock.  And even though we owned a much smaller fraction of that, that process actually led to significant disruptions in that coupon in terms of the liquidity of that coupon and in terms of our ability to settle the holdings.  We discussed this at the time, and the Committee approved a coupon swap to let us, at the end of the program, not demand delivery of the five-and-a-halfs and switch to a different coupon.  So we do have some evidence that diving too far into the stock can cause these market difficulties.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. This can be observed in the statement "When market participants talk about this, they confuse two issues that we want to separate very carefully." This implies that there is a difference of opinion or understanding among market participants regarding the issues being discussed. Additionally, the mention of the Committee approving a coupon swap suggests that there may have been differing viewpoints on the best course of action to address the market difficulties.


Passage number 238.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. In terms of Treasuries, presumably we’d want to be buying longer-term Treasuries.  What’s our capacity look like on that dimension. My understanding from our discussion of the maturity extension program was, even there we have some capacity constraints.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is seeking information about the capacity constraints related to buying longer-term Treasuries.


Passage number 239.
 MR. SACK.  Right.  In Treasuries, we currently own about 20 percent of the stock of coupon securities, and of course, our holdings are staying unchanged, whereas market supply is increasing.  So over time, that would drift down.  However, in longer securities, from 6 toyears, when we’re done with the maturity extension program, our holdings will actually be 30 to 35 percent of the market in aggregate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply providing information about the current and future holdings of Treasuries in coupon securities.


Passage number 240.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. That’s a lot.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 241.
 MR. SACK.  So we’re quite large there already. We believe we could push that further.  As I said, if the Committee were interested in a larger or longer LSAP program, I do think we could shift some of the purchases into Treasuries comfortably and easily get to outcomes where this type of program could be carried on for two years or longer, but there, too, eventually there could be a limit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their belief that they could expand the LSAP program and shift some of the purchases into Treasuries, but they also acknowledge that there could eventually be a limit to the program.


Passage number 242.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke, did you have a two-hander. MS. DUKE.  Well, actually I do now.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. MS. DUKE.  What was the total issuance this year.  I thought it was just, like, $900 billion or something—total new issuance of MBS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are making light-hearted remarks and asking a question.


Passage number 243.
 MR. SACK.  Gross issuance of mortgages. MS. DUKE. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is a dialogue where Mr. Sack makes a statement and Ms. Duke simply affirms it with a "Yes." There is no indication of contention or disagreement in their interaction.


Passage number 244.
  MR. SACK. What we project for 2012 is just over $1 trillion of gross issuance for the year.  So if we take a $500 billion LSAP combined with about $325 billion of reinvestments that we project, that gets us to two-thirds or a little bit higher of the gross as well. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker, did you have a comment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 245.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  I’m always curious and yearning for more when I hear you say things like you did just now about liquidity.  I think of liquidity as whether you can buy or sell an   asset, and you contrasted that with your effect on the price.  You go in and you buy the 5 percent coupon.  Presumably, that drives up the price.  Presumably, people who can sell can sell it easier now.  If you’re trying to buy, presumably it’s harder, but that’s supply and demand, right. What do you mean by liquidity drying up in this context.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a conversation where one person is seeking clarification on a specific term (liquidity) used by the other person.


Passage number 246.
 MR. SACK. I mean the ability to buy or sell at the market price no matter what the effect on the price is, wherever the market moves—the ability of other agents to transact in volume at something close to that price and actually receive delivery of the securities.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states the ability to buy or sell at market price and the ability of other agents to transact and receive delivery of securities.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 247.
 MR. LACKER.  At what price.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is questioning or challenging the price of something.


Passage number 248.
 MR. SACK.  At whatever the market price becomes after our transaction.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a statement made by Mr. Sack regarding a potential market price after a transaction.


Passage number 249.
 MR. LACKER.  What does the market price mean in this context if it’s not what you can buy and sell at.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, is posing a question and seeking clarification or a different perspective on the meaning of market price.


Passage number 250.
 MR. SACK. In a liquid, well-functioning market, there will be a market price where private agents can transact, buy or sell, at something close to that price in volume.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a hypothetical scenario about a well-functioning market where private agents can transact at a market price.


Passage number 251.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. If I could just interject, think about it as how much I would move the market for a given size of purchase or sale.  As the market becomes more illiquid, I move the market by more for a purchase or sale of a given size.  And the bid–asked premium might also widen.  So that’s how you think about illiquidity.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It focuses on explaining the concept of illiquidity and how it affects the market.


Passage number 252.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay, and that’s different than affecting the price you get.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It appears to be a straightforward statement.


Passage number 253.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  The price is determined where the supply equals demand, but illiquidity is how much I move the price for a given quantity of purchases or sales. That’s how I define the difference. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage simply states the author's definition of the difference between price and illiquidity. There is no disagreement or contention present.


Passage number 254.
 MR. FISHER.  Can I just ask for one more information point. What are the equivalent figures for the MBS market in terms of our concentration.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is a simple question asking for additional information.


Passage number 255.
 MR. SACK. In aggregate, meaning our holdings relative to fixed-rate agency MBS outstanding in total, we are 18 to 19 percent of the market, but again, as with Treasuries, there are certain segments where our holdings are larger. In the 4 and 4½ percent coupons, our holdings are more in the 35 to 45 percent range of the market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply provides information about their holdings in certain segments of the market without expressing any disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 256.
 MR. FISHER.  Thirty-five to 45.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply provides a response to a question without any conflicting opinions or contradicting statements.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 257.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I had a question, again, on the language in paragraph 3.  From alternative A at the last meeting to alternative B at this meeting, the language went through a substantial change.  I looked at this language and thought about what the effect of a disruption on oil prices in the Mideast would be—where, over the short term, the inflation rate would go up quite substantially, and we’d probably, over the two-year period, move further away from our unemployment objective.  When we go to a total measure but go to a short horizon, I wonder if various supply shocks become problematic with the threshold.  If it was a horizon further out or if we used a core concept or talked about underlying inflation—there are a number of ways to change that language, either through the actual threshold or through actually what we’re measuring or through the time period—the language would be less susceptible to a supply shock.  Do you have that concern with this language.  And it gets to the Chairman’s comment that this is not binding, that it is conditional language, and there are circumstances where this language wouldn’t necessarily be something that generated us to tighten.  But just looking at the way the language was structured here, it seemed more susceptible than the language in alternative A at the last meeting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Rosengren is expressing his concern and disagreement with the language in paragraph 3 and suggesting alternative ways to address the issue.


Passage number 258.
 MR. ENGLISH. Two thoughts on that.  One is, the one-to-two-year horizon is supposed to say, yes, you could get an oil shock or whatever that would push inflation up, but if you see it coming down, say, year after next to something close to your objective, then that’s okay.  And the other is that, as you say, these are thresholds; they’re not triggers.  So the Committee could say, “Gee, we’ve had such a large shock that inflation will be away from our objective for a couple of years—it won’t come back until, say, year three, but we’re okay with that.  And we’ll not necessarily have to take any action to tighten policy given this language.” That was our intent, in any case.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply presenting two thoughts or perspectives on the matter. 


Passage number 259.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide any information or statements that indicate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 260.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Bill, I want to ask about your choice of 6½ percent in alternative A and what the thought process was.  It could be just as simple as using B as a fulcrum.  A adds more accommodation and C removes some accommodation, but an alternative interpretation might be that A implies a lower assumption of the NAIRU than B, or A implies a higher tolerance for inflation risk than B, or the unemployment rate is now serving as a proxy for a later liftoff. So could you elaborate further on the thought process of getting to a 6½ unemployment rate as a choice in A.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for further clarification and elaboration on the thought process behind choosing a 6½ percent unemployment rate in alternative A.


Passage number 261.
 MR. ENGLISH. In A, what we were trying to suggest was that the Committee could try to provide a little more accommodation by, in effect, making it likelier that the Committee would wait longer before raising rates—or at least suggesting that to the public by having a lower threshold for the unemployment rate.  In terms of the SEP contributions for members of the FOMC, four people had SEP contributions for the unemployment rate at the time of liftoff that were about 6½ or lower.  That’s including somebody at 6.6 percent.  So it seemed a plausiblenumber given your SEP contributions.  As I said in my briefing, if you were taking seriously the staff’s optimal control exercises, you could conceivably wait considerably longer still, and we could conceivably have written down an even lower unemployment threshold in alternative A. But that seemed to get away from the SEP contributions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the reasoning behind their suggestion for a lower threshold for the unemployment rate.


Passage number 262.
 MR. LOCKHART.  So if you were to provide a whole spectrum of alternatives instead of five, basically, you could have said that A is essentially a 7 percent threshold, but 2015 or 2016.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a statement that explains the potential options for providing a spectrum of alternatives. It does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 263.
 MR. ENGLISH.  That would be another way to do it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple statement, suggesting an alternative method to accomplish something.


Passage number 264.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I want to make the observation that there is a substantial amount of thinking in academia about the notion that in a liquidity trap, you might want to promise to keep rates lower longer than would be time-consistent.  That is, you want to promise that even when inflation begins to pick up, you’ll keep rates low.  And if that promise is credible, which it may not be, that can produce more stimulus now and give overall better results.  So if you interpret the SEP as being the time-consistent path of policy, there is an argument—I think a pretty reasonable argument—that one might consider going beyond that point in order to get further stimulus now.  But that’s just one additional way of thinking about this.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  My question has to do with the language and how you see the language evolving over time.  When we did “mid-2013,” the ink wasn’t even dry before we started wringing our hands about whether that was the right date and whether we should move it or express it differently. So I’m happy to see that the “late 2014” is pretty consistent with the projections that we’re going to publish, but I can see that over time, the projections might move. I was wondering how you thought about changing that guidance, if that guidance is in there— how often, how frequently, with what kinds of circumstances.  And then similarly, is the language on the unemployment rate or on inflation a transparency piece or new dials to turn.  So sometimes in alternative A, the language is, “This is the next step in this process.”  Would we think about the language in 3 as being another dial to be turned.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It includes statements and questions related to different perspectives and considerations on monetary policy, but there is no direct argument or disagreement between the speakers.


Passage number 265.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think my intention would be that the date would have to be adjusted.  It would need to be at least roughly consistent with the SEP contributions.  If the Committee decided, as the Chairman said a moment ago, to go more in the direction of a commitment to keep rates lower for longer, then the 7 percent, for example, could change, the thresholds could change. If the Committee didn’t decide to go in that direction, I would expect that those wouldn’t necessarily change, although ultimately, if economic conditions change, of course they might have to.  But you’d want to try to have these things be more or less squared up with the SEP contributions, though there can be some discussion by the Committee and agreement by the Committee to agree to things that aren’t necessarily exactly what’s in the SEP contributions. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions for Bill.  [No response] If not, we’re ready for our go-round, and we’ll start with President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not have any contention or disagreement. It is a discussion about the possibility of adjusting dates and thresholds based on the Committee's decision and economic conditions.


Passage number 266.
 MR. LACKER.  No, I don’t think we should provide forward guidance at this meeting, either in the date form or in the contingent form, given what’s in the SEP.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Lacker agrees with President Williams' suggestion that they should not provide forward guidance at this meeting, based on the information in the SEP.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 267.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll start by stating my support for alternative B, and then I’d like to discuss the distinction between paragraphs 3 and 3′. Before getting into that, let me make a couple of comments on how I’m thinking about the role of the statement versus the SEPs and the intended effect of forward guidance in the statement.  It strikes me that, just based on the first three statements on the policy that have been made this afternoon, we will be introducing innovations that create potential confusion as to the coordination between the statement, the SEPs, and the consensus statement that we approved yesterday, and that more work is required for all of us to understand how those fit together. To my way of thinking, the post-FOMC statement is a policy tool, and the SEP is supplemental   information that communicates individual views of FOMC participants. I don’t believe the SEPs can substitute for the statement of the Committee, because the projections do not represent a voted decision of the Committee or an actionable consensus of the Committee.  I do see forward guidance as a policy instrument—that is, a tool to influence market expectations.  And I think guidance needs to be expressed through the statement or the Chairman’s testimony and other public comments. I see the choice now between paragraphs 3 and 3′ as a question of, what’s the simplest and most effective way to convey guidance attuned to the public’s and the market’s key concerns.  And I think those concerns are the path of interest rates and the Fed’s market activity using the balance sheet. While I acknowledge some awkwardness in stating forward guidance in the form of a calendar date, I think it is still the more appropriate form for issuing official forward guidance regarding the policy outlook of the Committee.  Paragraph 3 retains the calendar date, of course, while introducing the innovation of conditional thresholds based on macroeconomic outcomes.  And the real innovation in this—one that the broad public may not be expecting—is an explicit macroeconomic threshold based on the unemployment rate.  Even if introduced with the affirmation of a “balanced approach,” included in the statement of longer-run goals and policy strategy, this strikes me as opening a new chapter for the FOMC.  And I have some misgivings about going down this road.  Many of us have made the fairly obvious point of the difficulty of expressing the Committee’s employment objective in terms of an unemployment rate as opposed to employment growth.  In recent months, we’ve seen an unexpected drop in the unemployment rate, and there has been much discussion about the causes of that drop and whether it will stick.  Attention has been rightly focused on how to interpret the nature of flows in and out of employment and the labor force. I worry that institutionalizing such an intense focus on a single labor indicator—the unemployment rate—would actually confuse the public’s understanding of the employment mandate.  I’m similarly uncomfortable with the asymmetry of specifying the unemployment threshold in terms of a realized outcome while the inflation threshold is expressed in terms of a forecast.  While the unemployment threshold is based on observable data, the inflation threshold, by nature, is based on our forecasts—in a way, our guesses—about what will happen.  And I worry that this could reinforce cynicism about our motives and has the potential to fuel an inference that the Committee’s true priorities have shifted rather profoundly in the direction of less commitment to low and stable inflation. In addition to concerns about going down the path of putting economic conditionality into the statement, I’m leery of the 7 percent threshold in option B, and even more so of the 6½ percent threshold in option A.  In my view, a 7 percent threshold is getting a little too close to reasonable estimates of the NAIRU. I think the criterion for an unemployment threshold, if we include one, should be that it is high enough that most people will see it as clearly consistent with price stability.  This is especially true since the nature of the threshold is that policy is not expected to adjust until the stated threshold is crossed.  Given the imprecision in estimating NAIRU, and our imperfect knowledge of the lags in monetary policy effects, a 7 percent threshold makes me a bit uncomfortable. So I am concerned that by adding these conditional thresholds to our rate guidance, the Committee may, perhaps unwittingly, introduce a bias in the direction of the employment mandate.  I think that interpretation is almost inevitable in some quarters and carries the risk of destabilizing inflation expectations.  So I would prefer paragraph 3′ in alternative B.  But now that I’m a voter, I’m not going to dissent over the language decision in the statement.  If the consensus is going to go with the substance of paragraph 3, I strongly prefer 7½ percent.  I thinkthis level is high enough to accommodate a wide range of views on the NAIRU or slack and gives the Committee more flexibility to exercise judgment in balancing these two objectives in varied circumstances.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. Mr. Lockhart expresses disagreement with the idea of introducing conditional thresholds in the statement and expresses concerns about the unemployment rate as a sole indicator for the employment mandate. He also disagrees with the specified thresholds in both options A and B.


Passage number 268.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  I support using thresholds, including a 7 percent unemployment rate, but feel we need to rework the language before it is included in the statement. I was somewhat surprised that B does not include additional quantitative easing, given the direction that our discussion was heading at the last meeting and the modest deterioration in the Tealbook forecast since then.  Given how far we are from both elements of the mandate both in the Tealbook and my own forecast, it is likely we will not be tightening until beyond 2014.  To shorten the time period of exceptionally low rates would require either much faster growth than is currently predicted or more accommodative monetary and/or fiscal policy in the near term. If GDP growth is as slow as the Tealbook envisions, and we continue to experience large misses on our mandates, at the next meeting we should consider beginning a large mortgage purchase program to reduce the adjustment period.  I support thresholds because they move us in the direction of a statement based on economic outcomes rather than a calendar date.  That said, I am concerned that the latest version of the statement reduced the inflation threshold from 2½ to 2 percent.  We will be announcing a 2 percent goal today, which should clear up any confusion about our longer-term goal. I am not in favor of language that might be interpreted as making 2 percent sound like a ceiling.  Given our current and expected elevated unemployment rate, I believe we need the latitude to allow modest fluctuations of inflation around our longer-run goal, consistent with a quadratic loss function.In addition, I would not support removing the calendar date from the statement now, for reasons just described by President Lockhart.  The SEP, as of this meeting, reflects the expected funds rate path for all participants, with no distinction between voting and nonvoting members.  The markets will price in the interest rate path that reflects the expected vote of the Committee. I believe paragraph 3, with a calendar date, maintains this distinction and better reflects the consensus of the Committee than a scatter diagram of our individual interest rate paths.  Unless we change the SEP—for example, by distinguishing voters from nonvoters or identifying the submissions—the statement will remain our best way to communicate the consensus of the current voting members, which should include the likely date of liftoff and the economic conditions consistent with that liftoff.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is expressing their support for alternative B and their concerns about the language in the statement. They also express support for using thresholds and mention their disagreement with the reduction of the inflation threshold. However, there is no clear contention or disagreement presented in this passage.


Passage number 269.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Hold on.  President Lacker, you have a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The phrase "Hold on" is used to pause and allow President Lacker to speak, but it does not indicate any disagreement or contention between the speakers.


Passage number 270.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  When you say “voters,” do you mean this year’s voters or those in 2014 or 2013.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker is simply seeking clarification of the term "voters" and asking for the specific timeframe to be referred to.


Passage number 271.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  The voters who would be appropriate for each year they would be voting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is not providing any information or making any claims that could lead to contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that there are voters who would be appropriate for each year they would be voting.


Passage number 272.
 MR. LACKER.  Ah, okay. Interesting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 273.
 MR. BULLARD.  That was my question.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker asks a question, and then expresses gratitude and moves on to another topic.


Passage number 274.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Because I’m in my normal spot today, as opposed to President Fisher’s spot, I’m going to return to my normal incoherence.  So I apologize for that.  My hair is not on fire, but President Evans has got a match pretty close to it.   [Laughter] I’m going to argue pretty strenuously on three points, and probably most strenuously on the first point.  I do not think that simply citing high unemployment and low inflation indicates that more should be done.  I’ve argued this before, and I’ll try to be more aggressive today on that point.  Then I’ll discuss thresholds in the statement. I agree with many of the previous speakers that this is potentially quite confusing, both for the Committee and for financial markets.  And then I’ll discuss calendar dates in the statement, which I have opposed in the past, and with the SEP now, it’s not clear that a date in the forecast really means anything compared with the SEP. I’ve already suggested a qualitative statement that lets the SEP do the talking, and I’ll come to that at the end.  I have provided language in a memo. So let me start on the first point, and let me characterize what some of the argument around the table is.  This is a characterization—I’m overdoing it a little bit to make a point:  “Unemployment is high.  Inflation is near target.  That can’t possibly be the optimal policy, and therefore we must do more.”  That’s what I’m hearing.  Let me make the point that if you look at the memo from Jean-Philippe Laforte, this is patently false. Let’s consider the optimal policy exercises that are included in Laforte’s memo.  This is in the Tealbook.  It’s called “Uncertainty about the Tealbook Forecast and Alternative Simulations,” and it’s the standard memo that we always get. In particular, figure 2 in the memo shows how unemployment and inflation would evolve, according to the model, under fully optimal commitment strategy for the Committee.  So at least if you’re willing to accept the model, you can’t do better than that.  I’ll come back to the assumptions under the model, but if you accept the model, you can’t do better.  This is the full commitment solution.  In that scenario, unemployment would remain high, and inflation would be about 2.1 percent a year from now.  So you would get to 2013, and you’d have inflation pretty close to target, and you’d have pretty high unemployment.  If you accept the model and acceptthat the Committee was able to pursue the full commitment strategy, then these are the values that would obtain in 2013.  And yet, as I am interpreting the argument around the table, many of you would come back to the Committee and say, “Well, we’ve got high unemployment, inflation is essentially at target, and that suggests more should be done.” But that would be a wrong statement in my view, because the most that can be done is already being done, according to that exercise. In that circumstance, in fact, doing more would be making things worse by knocking the economy off the optimal path that’s been calculated.  So the point is that simply citing high unemployment and low inflation is not enough to determine whether the Committee is doing as much as possible or not.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard, people are looking for the memo that you’re citing.  Could you tell us where to find it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement.


Passage number 275.
 MR. BULLARD. This is “Uncertainty about the Tealbook Forecast and Alternative Simulations,” which is the standard memo that we get. It has the scenarios about a lost decade. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m looking at the unconstrained monetary policy, optimal control on page 3 of Tealbook, Book B, and it has PCE inflation rising above 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that Mr. Bullard is looking at a specific section of a memo.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 276.
 MR. EVANS.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage indicated by the word "Yes" in response to an unspecified statement or question. Without more context, it is difficult to determine the exact nature of the contention or disagreement.


Passage number 277.
 MR. BULLARD.  Are you talking about Laforte’s memo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Without the full context, it is difficult to determine whether there is contention or disagreement in this passage. The excerpt simply asks if the conversation is referring to Laforte's memo. Therefore, there is no explicit indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 278.
 MR. EVANS.  No—talking about the Bluebook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that they are not talking about the Bluebook.


Passage number 279.
 MR. BULLARD.  No—Laforte’s memo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that Mr. Bullard does not disagree with Laforte's memo.


Passage number 280.
 MR. EVANS.  That was only for research directors. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Mr. Wilcox is going to adjudicate.  What is the difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply provides information about Mr. Evans discussing the roles of research directors and Mr. Wilcox's responsibility as an adjudicator. There is no conflicting or disputing viewpoint presented.


Passage number 281.
 MR. WILCOX.  Okay.  Bill, help me out here.  I think the closest analog that you should all have in front of you is shown in Book B, on page 3, which shows the constrained optimalcontrol trajectory. The difference in what is shown in Jean-Philippe’s memo is that it also plots the Tealbook baseline, and Jean-Philippe’s memo compares the optimal policy trajectory under commitment and under discretion.  So what the version that President Bullard is referring to shows is that, compared with the Tealbook baseline, the optimal policy under commitment, which is the same one that’s shown on page 3 of Book B, holds the funds rate at the current target range longer—through, it looks like, about mid-2016—whereas the liftoff under the Tealbook baseline, which is driven by the outcome-based rule, has liftoff occurring in late 2014. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  So all optimal policies imply inflation above 2 percent.  Only the rule-based—am I right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing information and clarifying the differences between different policy trajectories.


Passage number 282.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay. I’m looking at this picture, “PCE inflation.” In 2013, it’s about 2 percent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  But it doesn’t project inflation below 2 percent indefinitely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is simply stating a fact and making an observation about the projection of inflation.


Passage number 283.
 MR. BULLARD. I’m coming to that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard simply states that he is about to address a specific topic or question.


Passage number 284.
 MR. FISHER.  It may be only my personal preference, Mr. Chairman, but I didn’t hear anything at the table yesterday other than concerns.  But in terms of the reporting that took place, as I mentioned in my summary, at least eight people at this table reported that things were a little bit better presently than they were at the last meeting.  So with your having opened that door, I would suggest we keep the language and not change it, because in a sense we’re going from a moderate pace of economic recovery. I would just point out that talking about economic growth being “modest” and “making only slow progress on unemployment” shifts it slightly downward, but there was no supporting evidence at the table other than some real fears and concern, which all of us share; but there was no documentary proof, as it were. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Are there others who’d like to take either side of that question.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is expressing their personal preference and stating that there was no supporting evidence at the table. However, they do not mention any disagreement or contention with others.


Passage number 285.
 MR. LACKER. Are you referring to “decline only gradually”. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes. I’m referring to B(2)—to simply go back to the December language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The person is simply confirming what they are referring to in response to the question.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 286.
 MR. LACKER.  I’d support that, particularly about “make only slow progress” versus “decline only gradually.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Anyone else. MS. DUKE.  I would be happier with the December language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is expressing support for a particular statement but suggesting alternative wording, indicating disagreement or contention.


Passage number 287.
 MR. TARULLO.  I’d be against it, but I can see where we’re going here. MS. YELLEN.  I think if you look at the range of evidence the Tealbook has given us, there clearly has been negative news on income, on the global outlook, and on other things that justifies this change in the language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Both speakers express their opinions and agree that there has been negative news that justifies a change in language.


Passage number 288.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman, just to reinforce a point that many people have made before, paragraph 1 is backward looking, and paragraph 2 is forward looking.  So we don’t need documentary evidence of anything for 2 other than whatever indicia we look at to try to form our own projections of where we’re going to be going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any contention or disagreement. It simply clarifies the structure and purpose of two paragraphs without indicating any conflict of opinion.


Passage number 289.
 MR. FISHER.  Can I make a point, Mr. Chairman, as to Governor Yellen’s point. We do have a sentence that says, “Strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.”  That’s still true.  We have no evidence that it’s worse.  We worry that it may be worse. MS. YELLEN.  The Tealbook outlook has been downgraded, and my outlook has been downgraded.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, agrees with Governor Yellen's point that strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook. He further emphasizes that they have no evidence that the situation has worsened but express concerns that it may. Governor Yellen supports Mr. Fisher's point by stating that the Tealbook outlook has been downgraded, indicating a more pessimistic economic outlook.


Passage number 290.
 MR. FISHER.  Yours has, the Tealbook’s has, but I didn’t hear that around the table. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Since December. MS. YELLEN.  Since December, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply acknowledges that both the person referred to as "yours" and the Tealbook have made the mentioned statement.


Passage number 291.
 MR. LACKER.  Excuse me.  The unemployment rate projection in the Tealbook has changed one-tenth in two quarters—it’s virtually identical.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement expressed in this passage. The speaker is simply pointing out a change in the unemployment rate projection.


Passage number 292.
 MR. TARULLO.  Actually, Jeff, to be honest, I’m not sure I can tell the difference between “decline only gradually” and “make only slow progress.” It’s the first change that I’m actually more concerned with. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Expects economic growth “to be modest”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply expressing their confusion about the difference between two phrases and stating their concern about the first change. They also mention their expectation of modest economic growth, which is not presented as a point of contention.


Passage number 293.
 MR. TARULLO.  Yes.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 294.
 MR. LOCKHART. It seems to me that we might be able to give an indication of some continuity with the fourth quarter, and so I actually favored going back to a version of the December language that might say something like, “The Committee expects a continuation of a moderate pace of growth” or “continued moderate growth”—and then dropping the word “only” in front of “slow progress.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s the opposite of what Governor Tarullo was looking for.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lockhart is simply proposing an alternative version of the language, which is different from what Governor Tarullo was looking for.


Passage number 295.
 MR. TARULLO.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chair.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply a response to a question.


Passage number 296.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I agree with Governor Tarullo on the “decline only gradually,” making “only slow progress”—I don’t know which one is which.  So I think we should just go back to the original there because, why make the change unless we’re trying to communicate something.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not express any disagreement or contention. The speaker is simply expressing uncertainty about which statement corresponds to Governor Tarullo's opinion. They suggest going back to the original statement to avoid confusion.


Passage number 297.
 MR. LACKER.  I just assumed the new one was gloomier.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states their assumption about the new one being gloomier, without challenging or contradicting any previous statement or opinion.


Passage number 298.
 MR. FISHER.  So wait—Bill, your point is, don’t change it, leave it as it was.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. MR. FISHER is simply asking Bill to clarify his point and confirming that Bill is suggesting to leave something unchanged.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 299.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I mean on that point, I think that we should just agree that the words are not clear about which direction it is.  So if we can’t be clear on what the direction is of that change, then why don’t we just keep it the way it was. The “modest” versus “moderate” one, I think, is a more substantive issue, and that’s a question of whether the Committee wants to downgrade its economic growth forecast.  And the issue is whether the change in the growth outlook meets that threshold to make that change.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  I don’t want to pursue this longer than necessary.  How about if we keep, along the lines of what Governor Tarullo said—“The Committee expects economic growth over coming quarters to be modest”—but then change back to “consequently anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only gradually,” since the unemployment trajectory looks about the same.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage contains contention and disagreement. The speaker is suggesting keeping some parts of the statement the same while making changes to others, indicating a difference in opinion or preference.


Passage number 300.
 MR. TARULLO.  I’m fine with that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Tarullo, expresses his agreement or acceptance of something without any opposing viewpoints or conflict being mentioned.


Passage number 301.
 MR. LOCKHART. Could you repeat that please. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. So we will keep the first change—“The Committee expects economic growth over coming quarters to be modest”—as it’s written there—“and consequently anticipates that the unemployment rate”—now going back to the old language—“will decline only gradually toward levels.”  Then make the change below about inflation—I think the word “settle” is actually not the word we want because it suggests permanent low levels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a request for clarification or repetition of a statement, followed by a suggestion for a change in language.


Passage number 302.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And the last sentence, the bracketed language. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay, I was going to come back to that.  So is what we just said okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their intention to return to a topic that was previously mentioned. The statement "So is what we just said okay" indicates a desire for confirmation or agreement from the listener.


Passage number 303.
 MR. LACKER.  Should we make a note for future meetings that 2.3 percent is moderate and 2.1 percent is modest. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  What happens if it’s 2.2.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply suggesting making a note for future meetings about the definitions of "moderate" and "modest" in relation to a certain percentage.


Passage number 304.
  [Laughter] MR. LACKER.  That’ll be a real dilemma. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right. Let me ask the Committee now about the bracketed language.  Preferences. MS. YELLEN. I’d prefer to eliminate it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Eliminate.  MS. DUKE.  I don’t care. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Don’t care.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speakers express their preferences but there is no conflict or argument.


Passage number 305.
 MR. TARULLO. Indifferent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Indifferent.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Indifferent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Indifferent.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The responses "Indifferent" indicate a lack of opinion or emotional investment, but there is no disagreement expressed.


Passage number 306.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Eliminate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Eliminate.  Two.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement present in the passage as it consists of a repetitive word, "eliminate", rather than any conflicting ideas or opinions.


Passage number 307.
 MR. LACKER.  I said we should keep it. MS. PIANALTO.  Indifferent. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. MS. PIANALTO.  I’ll say keep it, then. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You’ll say keep it. MS. PIANALTO. I lean toward keeping it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. All individuals express an agreement or indifference towards keeping something.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 308.
 MR. LOCKHART. I’d eliminate it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

In the passage, Mr. Lockhart suggests eliminating something, but President Williams' response is not provided. The lack of President Williams' response creates uncertainty and potential disagreement or contention regarding the idea of elimination.


Passage number 309.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Eliminate it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right. I’m getting a slight tilt toward elimination here. Again, there’s obviously nothing here saying that we’re going to go hog-wild on inflation.  It’s simply that when inflation was very high and was not coming down and we were concerned, the original purpose of the sentence was to reassure the public that we would, of course, continue to  pay close attention and implicitly respond if our projection didn’t come true.  Further comments. [No response] Okay.  Will you read what we have. MS. DANKER.  Yes.  This is a vote on alternative B from the handout and the associated directive, with paragraph 2 adjusted as follows.  The second sentence now reads, “The Committee expects economic growth over coming quarters to be modest and consequently anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.” The bracketed sentence is dropped from the end of that paragraph, and the statement includes paragraph 3′, not 3. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right. MS. DANKER.   Chairman Bernanke Yes Vice Chairman Dudley Yes Governor Duke Yes President Lacker No President Lockhart Yes President Pianalto Yes Governor Raskin Yes Governor Tarullo Yes President Williams Yes Governor Yellen Yes CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  A few announcements.  I will be trying to explain all of this to the public [laughter] at 2:15 at the press conference. I’m going to cover today’s action, and I’ll talk about the consensus statement, the outlook, and the policy projections.  And I’ll do what I can with the questions.  There will be a screen in the Special Library for those of you who have nothing better to do.  And I have a question from President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage consists of a discussion and vote on a proposed alternative, and everyone's votes are clearly stated without any debate or disagreement.


Passage number 310.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes, about the press conference—I realize you have some time to prepare to give this more thought.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no mention of contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply agreeing with the statement that they have more time to prepare for a press conference.


Passage number 311.
 MR. LACKER.  But I’m really curious as to how you would respond if asked about the fact that 11 out of 17 SEP projections have us increasing rates before the end of 2014, leaving only six— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I would respond that we changed it from “end of” to “late” for exactly that reason, since 11 of 17 have rates at the end of 2014 at 1 percent or less.  Again, I will say that the Committee takes the SEP projections as useful input, but of course it’s going to make a judgment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is asking a question and the other person is providing an explanation for their response.


Passage number 312.
 MR. LACKER.  The other thing I’m really curious about—we debated commitment, the extent to which there’s commitment, and it’s still sort of murky to me. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, in my introductory statement, I have a sentence saying that this is not a commitment—underline “not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their curiosity and uncertainty about a topic, but there is no indication of any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 313.
” MR. LACKER.  If I could make just one comment about governance and point out the obvious thing that, to the extent that it was a commitment or a forecast, it’s about future Committee members who are now participants.  So the division between voters and participants is not so bright a line. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course, and that’s why we show all of them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is stating a fact about governance and the distinction between voters and participants.


Passage number 314.
 MR. LACKER.  And why we do things the way we do things. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s why we’re putting all of the 17 participant projections into the SEP and not identifying.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply explaining the reason behind a certain action without any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


