Passage number 1.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes, a couple of questions for Brian.  If the debt ceiling is resolved on time, have you been in conversations with the Treasury about the pace at which the Supplementary Financing Program will be reinstated.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a question being asked by Mr. Lacker to Brian about his conversations with the Treasury.


Passage number 2.
 MR. SACK.  We have not been in active discussions about that, given the uncertainties about the debt ceiling.  I think there is general agreement that the SFP could be brought back up to its previous size with a sufficient increase in the debt ceiling.  But no, we haven’t had detailed conversations about it recently.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement.


Passage number 3.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  My second question has to do with MBS sales.  In discussing the Treasury sales, you noted the large difference between the magnitude of our holdings and the magnitude of their sales and holdings.  And you said that Fed sales, because they would involve such a large amount, could have implications for market pricing and market functioning.  In preparing for this meeting, I looked at the November transcript where I asked you about the pace of our purchases, and what sort of factors you thought would motivate limiting the pace of our purchases.  You said essentially two things:  One was operational capabilities, and the other was the potential for affecting market functioning.  You were careful to distinguish between the pricing effect, which, as you noted, was presumably the desired effect of the policy, and what you called market liquidity.  And what you described was that we didn’t want to create too much of a one-sided market by buying too much, resulting in lower trading volumes between other parties and higher bid-asked spreads and all. So going in the other direction and selling things, do you think about the effect on market functioning the same way.  I mean, it’s unlikely to result in a one-sided market, right.  We are putting more things out there, and a lower trading volume seems unlikely because there is going to be more float out there.  How do you think about the potential market-functioning effects, apart from the pricing effects.  The broad motivation for this question, obviously, is, how fast could we conceivably think about selling our assets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not showing any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply asking a question for clarification and seeking the other person's thoughts and perspective on the matter.


Passage number 4.
 MR. SACK.  I think about the market-functioning aspects in many of the same ways—though maybe not entirely.  I think rapid sales could be difficult for the market to digest and could result in a one-sided market where dealers have more trouble making markets and where other participants are less inclined to participate, given the heavy flow coming from one single seller.  So I think the same concerns would apply if we are talking about a pace of sales that’s very high.   One thing we’ve learned from the Treasury decision, though, is that the pace that they have set out, of up to $10 billion a month, seems to have been fairly easily digested so far. It does not seem to be raising any problems with market functioning.  And $10 billion a month is not a lot of net supply relative to the history of the MBS market.  In the early 2000s, there was $200 billion to $300 billion of net supply coming to the market each year—something on the order of $20-some billion a month.  There is not much net supply coming from fundamentals today, so the Treasury adding their $10 billion to net supply hasn’t been too disruptive. There’s one difference:  When you are selling assets out of your portfolio, these are seasoned securities, or what are called specified pools; they’re not the production securities in the TBA market.  We had a little bit of uncertainty about gauging whether $10 billion was a lot or not, because these were seasoned securities, but I think what we have learned from the Treasury program is that the market has been able to digest that.  The concerns about market functioning, I think, would apply if the Committee were to consider much more rapid paces of MBS sales than $10 billion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of the speaker's thoughts and observations.


Passage number 5.
 MR. LACKER.  Can I follow up, Mr. Chairman.  I want to learn more about this concern about market functioning.  The way I thought about your comments in November was that—for the standard market microstructure model—marketmakers commit some capital based on expected returns and expected deal flow.  If we are buying a lot, I can see why the market would shrink and the number of marketmakers ought to shrink.  But my intuition about flipping that around and applying it to a situation where we are selling would be that the number of marketmakers would increase and spreads would fall.  Do you have some other model in mind, or am I missing something in applying the standard model to this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker is simply seeking clarification and asking for more information from the chairman.


Passage number 6.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, I do.  As I said, I have many of the same concerns with market functioning in terms of selling.  But I agree with you, it is not the same, and there are some things that are asymmetric.  In terms of the available float, tradable float to the market, that’s very different.  When we were buying very actively, we were removing a lot of the tradable float, and that was likely impairing market liquidity.  And, of course, when we’re selling, we are providing supply to the market that it can trade.  However, as I mentioned, we are not selling the most actively traded TBA securities in the market.  We will be selling these more seasoned, more specific pools, which may limit that benefit to some degree. The concern I was raising was that, if the market thought that there was a single seller who would be in very aggressively, and maybe unpredictably, it would be harder for marketmakers to make markets and provide liquidity to the market.  So it is the uncertainty, I would say, about what the effect of a very aggressive sales program would be that would limit market functioning.  But I want to emphasize that this would be at paces well above what the Treasury decided upon.  We think that there is some room to sell at a decent pace without causing significant market disruption.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 7.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  You took pains to reduce the uncertainty about the pace of our purchases, and I’m assuming you did the same thing for the sales, too.  So the uncertainty around our sales can’t be large, can it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 8.
 MR. SACK.  Well, I think that would depend on what the FOMC communicated.  And then, given what the FOMC has communicated, we would decide if there were additional details for the Desk to communicate.  But I agree that communicating about the sales strategy would help.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with the idea of communicating about the sales strategy.


Passage number 9.
 MR. LACKER.  That seems like a price effect—that they’re uncertain where the price is going to be, as we are—and that seems like a policy consideration as opposed to market functioning.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is making an observation and stating his opinion based on that observation.


Passage number 10.
 MR. SACK.  Of course, in addition to the market-functioning aspects, as policymakers, you will also worry about the market-pricing effect, because we would assume that more-rapid sales programs would put upward pressure on long-term interest rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that policymakers would worry about the market-pricing effect in addition to the market-functioning aspects, assuming that more-rapid sales programs would put upward pressure on long-term interest rates.


Passage number 11.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Other questions for Brian.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It consists of a speaker expressing gratitude and asking if there are any further questions for another person named Brian.


Passage number 12.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I am looking at figure 24, “Expected Spread between IOER Rate and Federal Funds Rate.”  If I’m reading this correctly, IOER goes up and the spread gets larger.  Why is that.  I would think the arbitrage would be the arbitrage, given the fees that are in the market.  So why does the spread go up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Bullard is simply asking a question and seeking clarification on why the spread between IOER and the Federal Funds Rate increases.


Passage number 13.
 MR. SACK.  The current level of the spread is constrained by the arbitrage, but it’s also constrained by the zero bound on nominal interest rates, which is presumably limiting the spread that we see.  Let’s say the arbitrage hypothetically required 30 basis points.  We know the fed funds rate wouldn’t go to minus 5, so the zero bound is providing a limit on how big that spread can get.  I think what you are seeing is that, as IOER goes up, that limit goes away, and the spread increases.  Having said all that, at any level of the IOER rate, we think that arbitrage is relevant and does put a cap on how big that spread can be, because if that spread gets too large, firms will come in and do the arbitrage.  So that’s why the spread only rises to 25 basis points, even with such a large amount of reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is presenting a logical explanation for the current level of spread. They mention the constraints of arbitrage and the zero bound on nominal interest rates as factors limiting the spread. They also mention that as the IOER rate increases, the limit imposed by the zero bound decreases and the spread increases. Overall, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 14.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  That makes sense, but then the zero bound is still a factor, I guess, between, say, 1 and 2 percent on the IOER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The phrase "but then the zero bound is still a factor" suggests that there is disagreement or debate around the impact of the zero bound on the issue being discussed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 15.
 MR. SACK.  Under the story I just told, you would expect the same gap at 1 and 2, and that’s not consistently represented in the table.  For some of the columns, you see that pattern—that the gap widens a lot from 25 basis points to 100 basis points on IOER, and then widens only marginally more as you go to 200 basis points on IOER.  That’s true for all of the columns except for the first one.  So, my guess is that the gap that we will see between market interest rates and the IOER rate could widen as we move up from current levels, but, for the reason you noted, will reach a constant level, a steady-state level, well before the IOER rate gets to 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker (Mr. Sack) is asserting that there is inconsistency in the representation of the gap between market interest rates and the IOER rate in the table. He suggests that the gap widens significantly at lower IOER rates, but only marginally more as the IOER rate increases. However, he acknowledges that this pattern is not observed in the first column. This suggests that there is disagreement or uncertainty about the relationship between IOER rates and the gap between market interest rates and IOER rates.


Passage number 16.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no indication of contention or disagreement in this passage. The response from Mr. Bullard seems to be a straightforward and polite acknowledgment of President Kocherlakota's statement.


Passage number 17.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a question about figure 23.  This represents the primary dealers’ estimates of our draining capacity.  I was wondering what the staff’s own estimates would be of that number.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for the staff's estimates on a certain number.


Passage number 18.
 MR. SACK.  This is the draining capacity over a short time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage is a statement of fact about the draining capacity over a short time. There is no indication of any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 19.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  The intermeeting period, a relatively short period of time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is a statement of fact without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 20.
 MR. SACK.  I’ll speak for myself, and maybe not the staff as a whole.  My own impression is that these responses are pretty aggressive, especially on the reverse repo side.  If the mandate were to drain $500 billion of reserves or more, I think it may be prudent to spread that process out a bit more than over one intermeeting period. When we do reverse repurchase agreements, we are taking funding away from dealers and other participants in the market.  So there has to be this change in short-term credit flows because, ultimately, the reserves are going to come out of the banks; it requires a change of how the credit flows.  I think we are unsure about how easily the market adjusts as it moves through that chain, and so I think there is good reason to be gradual and to give the market more time than six weeks to make those adjustments. I think the capacity to ramp up term deposits quickly is perhaps a bit greater than reverse repos because it doesn’t require any re-intermediation of credit.  It’s just a change in the nature of banks’ assets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not include any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of the speaker's own impression and opinion.


Passage number 21.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  A relabeling, almost.  If I might follow up, I understand your concerns on reverse repos.  What would be your concerns about what kinds of constraints we would face in terms of the use of TDFs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply asks for more information about the concerns regarding the use of TDFs.


Passage number 22.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think on the term deposits, the question is simply that there’s a lot of uncertainty about the level of reserves that people will provide to us at a given price.  I mean, at a high enough price, we are pretty confident we could drain a lot of reserves, but we don’t know what that supply curve looks like. I think another issue that would suggest that having a little more time would be helpful is that some institutions have not participated thus far in our TDF operations but have suggested that, if this gets serious, they would want to sign up and begin participating.  We would want some time to get the new entrants integrated into the TDF program so that there would be more capacity as they came in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is describing the uncertainties and issues surrounding term deposits and the need for more time to address these concerns. There is no direct contention or disagreement presented in the passage.


Passage number 23.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply includes a statement of thanks from Mr. Kocherlakota to President Plosser.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 24.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes—a clarification, Brian.  I’m looking at figures 17 and 18 on page 3 about the GC repos and the securities lending.  You made a comment that part of the problem was the lack of Treasury collateral in some of these markets, which helps to explain a little bit of the rise in the securities lending and some of the differences in the repo rates.  Is that related at all to the fact that we are buying most of the Treasuries that are coming out through our purchase plan, and that we are actually making Treasury collateral scarce in doing this exercise.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in this passage. Mr. Plosser is questioning whether the lack of Treasury collateral in certain markets is related to the fact that the Federal Reserve is buying most of the Treasuries that are coming out through their purchase plan and thus making Treasury collateral scarce.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 25.
 MR. SACK.  The underlying market conditions coming into the FDIC fee were relevant.  We’ve been conducting asset purchases, and that has left less collateral in the market than it otherwise would have had; at the same time, the Treasury has run down the SFP, which also has taken Treasury collateral out of the market.  So there was a backdrop of less collateral available, but it wasn’t causing significant disruption or problems for the market.  What happened with the FDIC fee was much more of an abrupt shift.  Just to be clear, we had expected the repo rate to move down roughly in line with the federal funds rate for the same reasons that apply to the federal funds rate.  But what happened was that the adjustment was more abrupt.  It seemed that the decision by some market participants not to do the arbitrage—not to fund themselves in the repo market, pulling that collateral out of the market—really made it difficult for the market to adjust in the short term.  I would say that the things you point to provide a backdrop of some shortage but not problems, but then the FDIC fee resulted in a much more abrupt adjustment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Sack acknowledges that there was a shortage of collateral in the market, but states that it was not causing significant disruption or problems. However, he then argues that the decision by some market participants not to fund themselves in the repo market made it difficult for the market to adjust in the short term. This suggests a difference in opinion on the severity of the situation.


Passage number 26.
 MR. PLOSSER.  But if you go to the other panel, with the securities lending, since November there’s been a rather marked increase in securities lending by the Fed.  That’s the background you’re talking about.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It simply presents a statement made by Mr. Plosser regarding an increase in securities lending by the Fed.


Passage number 27.
 MR. SACK.  That is the background I’m talking about, and I think in part that upward trend is related to us taking Treasury securities out of the market. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not demonstrate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Sack explaining his belief that the upward trend is related to the removal of Treasury securities from the market. President Fisher's response is not provided in the given passage.


Passage number 28.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I don’t know if the questions are over, but I would like to move that we accept the proposal for the extension of the swap lines from Mexico and Canada and approve the Desk operations as you suggested. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  So there are three measures:  open market operations, foreign exchange operations, and the swap agreements.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher is simply stating his support for accepting the proposal for the extension of the swap lines from Mexico and Canada and approving the Desk operations, which include open market operations, foreign exchange operations, and the swap agreements.


Passage number 29.
 MR. FISHER.  I would like to move acceptance of all three. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Before we do that, though, let me just make sure—Governor Duke, did you have a question. MS. DUKE.  I just had one question.  Can you give me a sense of the relative size of the Treasury GC repo market and the current fed funds market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher simply wants to move the acceptance of all three items. Ms. Duke has a question about the size of the Treasury GC repo market and the current fed funds market.


Passage number 30.
 MR. SACK.  Yes.  There are different ways to measure this, but one way is to compare average daily volumes among dealers.  For federal funds, we’ve been seeing $40 billion to $50 billion of transactions daily.  For Treasury GC repos, just to the dealers, it’s been $500 billion to $600 billion. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is presenting different ways to measure transaction volumes, but there is no disagreement or contention between the speakers. They are simply providing information.


Passage number 31.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Brian, a more general question on your outlook for the effect of the FDIC fee on the repo market.  When we were considering the zero lower bound, we were concerned that there could be a destruction in the infrastructure that would occur over time with professionals leaving because they couldn’t operate at that low level, and then generally that there could be a relationship to IOER and its ability to have the effects we want as we begin to raise it.  Can you generally talk about your concern about whether this fee complicates our life over the longer term.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lockhart is simply asking for Brian's outlook and concern about the FDIC fee's effect on the repo market.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 32.
 MR. SACK.  Yes, I can.  There’s been a slight decline in funding activity in these markets as the FDIC fee was imposed, but it’s been fairly modest.  Even at these new prices, it seems like there is active intermediation of credit taking place, and, in that sense, the markets continue to function. Another pressure point, however, is the implications for money market mutual funds.  At this point, essentially, Treasury-only money funds will be operating at a loss, and essentially the fund complexes will likely be subsidizing those funds if they want to continue to offer them.  They may choose to do so.  Many of them feel that these types of funds are an important part of a suite of products that they offer customers.  As repo rates got extremely low, we did have several money funds raise complaints to us about this phenomenon, with at least one indicating that it couldn’t sustain some of its funds beyond the summer at these levels.  So I think what we will do is continue to reach out and listen to that type of anecdotal evidence.  At this point, that was just one fund, but we are going to try to get a sense of how widespread it is.  There’s no doubt that as Treasury repo rates and Treasury bill rates come in, that’s going to put additional pressure on the profit margins of the money funds.  The prime funds still seem quite okay.  There is enough yield pickup as they move into other products that we don’t think at this point that they’re generally under pressure. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  [No response]  All right.  We have a motion on all three of these measures.  Let’s take them one at a time.  Open market operations—can I have a second. MS. YELLEN.  Second. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any further questions or comments.  [No response]  Without objection.  Foreign exchange transactions—second. MS. YELLEN.  Second.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any comments or questions.  [No response]  Without objection.  And, finally, the renewal of the standing swap agreements with Canada and Mexico.  I need a second. MS. YELLEN.  Second. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any objections, comments.  [No response]  All right.  Thank you. Let’s go on, next, to item 2, Strategies for Removing Policy Accommodation.  A memorandum was distributed from the staff on April 19, and we will begin with Bill Nelson making a presentation.  Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates a disagreement or contention with the statement "The prime funds still seem quite okay." This is evidenced by the phrase "we don't think at this point that they're generally under pressure." The use of "at this point" implies that there may be disagreement or uncertainty about the future state of the prime funds.


Passage number 33.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Bill, in the memo that you circulated earlier, and to some degree in your presentation this morning, there is a hint, but not an explicit statement, of the proposition that the choice between option 1 and option 2, and variants thereon, would be tied, at least, to the relative pace of tightening that we would eventually want to undertake.  Is that a correct inference to draw.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a question being asked for clarification.


Passage number 34.
 MR. NELSON.  I don’t think so.  Just because we calibrated the two options so that they delivered the same amount of monetary tightening, they remove accommodation to the same degree and deliver the same macroeconomic outcome.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their opinion on the subject.


Passage number 35.
 MR. TARULLO.  So let me ask this question somewhat differently.  To what degree would the pros and cons of the two options be different depending on whether the Committee’s ultimate choice was a fairly gradual tightening or a fairly rapid tightening.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for more information and clarification.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 36.
 MR. NELSON.  I suppose one advantage of option 2, of sales earlier, is that if the Committee felt that it needed to tighten quickly, it would drain reserves more rapidly and thus set up the commencement of tightening of the federal funds rate sooner.  On the other hand, if the Committee felt that it needed to tighten more gradually, it might be reluctant to engage in asset sales earlier because there is a lot of uncertainty about their effect on the economy.  It would seem that at a point when the economy might be on less firm footing, the asset sales might pose greater risk.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker presents two different perspectives on the timing of asset sales and the potential impact on the economy. One perspective suggests that earlier sales would allow for a quicker tightening of the federal funds rate, while the other perspective suggests that earlier sales may pose greater risk and be hesitant to engage in them.


Passage number 37.
 MR. TARULLO.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  There’s a question from President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No disagreement. The passage is simply relaying a question from President Lockhart.


Passage number 38.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  A question both for Bill and Brian Sack.  I think you suggested that we may want to drain in advance of moving the fed funds rate.  Do you have any sense of how sharp the market reaction would be in long rates to the beginning of draining.  My thoughts:  The market would anticipate that that is a precursor, obviously, to moving the fed funds rate, and there would probably be an immediate reaction.  Is there any way to estimate how much that reaction would be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is a question asked by Mr. Lockhart seeking the opinions of Bill and Brian Sack on the potential market reaction to draining before moving the fed funds rate.


Passage number 39.
 MR. NELSON.  I can’t think of any way to estimate that.  I agree that it would certainly be a communication challenge, if you were to drain and mean it to be just a change in the liabilities on your balance sheet and not the commencement of tightening.  I think people would realize that by draining, you are setting the groundwork for raising the IOER rate and the target federal funds rate.  So I think the market reaction would be sharp, but it would in part depend upon the communications.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Nelson agrees that draining would be a communication challenge and acknowledges that the market reaction would be dependent on the communication strategy.


Passage number 40.
 MR. SACK.  I would just add, I think most of us would argue that the statement language is a much better vehicle for conveying information to the market about the expected timing of policy action.  And, indeed, one of the reasons that in the memo we put draining after changing “extended period” was just for that reason.  I would argue that, through your communications, you should try to make it clear—if you agree—that the draining patterns aren’t intended to be a signal about the timing of policy tightening because I think the statement is a much clearer signal in that regard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing his opinion and suggesting a course of action, but there is no opposition or conflicting viewpoint mentioned.


Passage number 41.
 MR. ENGLISH.  But that said, I think the basic point is right—when the market perceives that the Committee is starting in the direction of tightening, they’ll react to that, and you’ll see some effect in markets.  How large or small that is will depend, I think, a great deal on how that is communicated:  what the statement says and, potentially, speeches, press conferences, whatever it is around that.  But it will be a moment when communication will be very important. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It would also depend on what expectations were before that announcement was made.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the potential effects of the Committee's actions and the importance of effective communication.


Passage number 42.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Is there any reason to believe that that reaction will be any different this time than it would be in any other tightening cycle where we reverse.  In most cycles we reverse course at some point.  Is there any reason to believe that’s any more of a concern in this period than in any other period.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a simple question about whether there is a reason to believe that the reaction to tightening will be any different this time compared to previous tightening cycles.


Passage number 43.
 MR. SACK.  I think that in any period, the evolution of expectations of tightening is going to tighten financial conditions in advance of the actual policy tightening.  And in most cycles that would occur exclusively through the FOMC statement, because you wouldn’t have these other steps in the process, such as redemptions or reserve draining and so on.  So I think the ultimate effect on markets is going to depend on the same thing, which is how the expectations of the policy evolve, and it is a matter of managing which policy steps are conveying those signals. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is explaining the process of tightening financial conditions in advance of actual policy tightening and how it is dependent on the evolution of expectations and the signals conveyed by different policy steps. There is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 44.
 MR. HOENIG.  I have one. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that "President Hoenig" has a question.


Passage number 45.
 MR. HOENIG.  Just curious.  Let’s assume for the moment that inflationary pressures become more pronounced and the markets become more convinced that it is perennial if we don’t take an action.  Which of the options— in terms of either moving your funds rate or selling assets at that point —do you think would have the greatest effect on changing expectations about inflation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage describes a hypothetical situation and asks for an opinion on the potential effects of different options. There is no disagreement or contention present.


Passage number 46.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I guess it is not obvious to me that there would be a big difference between the two.  Either way, if the Committee was clear that it was concerned about inflation, that it was taking steps to tighten policy to address those concerns, I would have thought the communication would be clear, I’m assuming, and the market would react appropriately.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing confusion and seeking clarification about a potential difference in the impact of two different approaches to communication.


Passage number 47.
 MR. HOENIG.  Then it wouldn’t matter which option you’d choose—at that point you’d want to move more quickly, right.  So that would push that option forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Hoenig is making a statement and asking a question based on the assumption that no matter which option is chosen, the goal is to move quickly. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 48.
 MR. ENGLISH.  The steps would come in more rapid succession, I agree, and I think you could do that under either option.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It seems that Mr. English is in agreement with the idea that the steps would come more rapidly, regardless of the chosen option.


Passage number 49.
 MR. SACK.  My own view, though, is that your big gun is the short rate.  So a change in the “extended period” language signaling an earlier, more rapid tightening of short rates, I think, would be your most powerful instrument for tightening financial conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their personal opinion and viewpoint, without contradicting or challenging any other statements or ideas.


Passage number 50.
 MR. HOENIG.  Rather than selling the assets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Hoenig suggests an alternative to selling the assets.


Passage number 51.
 MR. SACK.  Right.  And you can see that in the staff’s simulations right now.  At the end of the second quarter when the asset purchase programs finish, the staff estimates about 40 basis points of effect on the term premium from our elevated asset holdings.  So selling the assets more quickly would shrink that effect.  But, of course, you could achieve a lot more tightening than that, if desired, through the path of the short-term interest rate and the signals that you send about it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the potential effect of asset purchase programs and the different ways to achieve tightening in monetary policy.


Passage number 52.
 MR. HOENIG.  So, you would begin with the repos and so forth to get the rate up more quickly and then allow your balance sheet to run off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It simply states a proposed course of action.


Passage number 53.
 MR. NELSON.  You can drain a considerable amount very quickly with redemptions as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact or observation about draining a considerable amount quickly with redemptions.


Passage number 54.
 MR. SACK.  I agree with what Bill and Bill said, that the entire sequence could be shifted and accelerated, but I was answering the question:  Out of all the tools, what do you think the most powerful tool is.  I think we would all agree, it’s still your traditional policy instrument.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing agreement with the previous statements.


Passage number 55.
 MR. HOENIG.  Okay.  I appreciate that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  [No response]  Okay.  In a moment we’ll begin a go-round to hear views on these and other issues.  There are some questions that staff provided just as thought starters, but I’m sure you won’t constrain yourselves necessarily.  [Laughter] Let me say a word about what I would like to get out of this.  I will have to discuss this with the press tomorrow, and I would like to provide as much information as I can, but no more than I should.  Certainly, what I will say initially will be that we discussed this issue, that a discussion of the exit process is a separate thing from making the decision to exit, and that it doesn’t necessarily signal any change in our stance; it’s a separate issue.  I want to emphasize the provisional aspects of this—that, as President Hoenig was suggesting, if conditions were different than anticipated, we might want to change the timing, pace, and so on.  It would depend on economic conditions, and then our communication will try to provide as much information as possible about that.  Those will be some general points, but beyond that, if I can get from this discussion some principles—for example, that the interest on excess reserves is the main tool supported by reserve drains, that the balance sheet will be adjusted in certain ways—those obviously would be helpful.  If not, I will just be more general. One final note on this:  The operating framework per se is a big topic and it is not necessarily part of our discussion today, but it does have some bearing potentially on, for example, how quickly we reduce the size of the balance sheet.  For example, if we want to use a floor system, we might not need to reduce the balance sheet as quickly.  To the extent that the operating system bears on this issue, you should feel free to bring that up.  Again, I’ll be taking careful notes, and I hope I can come up with some general principles, which I will then review with you to see if I can get a sense of the Committee from this discussion. Before ending, without trying to preempt the discussion at all, I thought I would make a couple of observations that I found useful in thinking about this.  One is simply that redemptions are a pretty powerful tool here.  If we were to begin redeeming both Treasuries and MBS in December 2011, as assumed by the Tealbook, that would reduce the size of the balance sheet by more than $1 trillion over four years, and we would be back essentially to normal size in four and a half years.  Now, that may be too long for some, but my point is only that that’s the baseline and that redemptions alone do move us in the right direction relatively quickly.  But obviously some may wish to go more quickly than that.  And of course, that doesn’t account for the need to swap around MBS, Treasuries, and so on to get the composition right. The other observation I had that I found useful in thinking about this is that it’s important for us to keep in mind that, in a policy sense, the sales and redemptions of assets and the movements in the interest paid on reserves are substitutes.  To the extent that you do more of one, you have to do less of the other, and as we discuss these policy tools, I think it is important that we not treat them in some sense as independent; they are part of a unified process. With those preliminary observations, I see President Bullard is first, and we can begin our go-round.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 56.
 MR. BULLARD.  On the capital losses issue, I think we have repeatedly and effectively said that we don’t make policy here based on capital gains or losses.  So I think we have been pretty effective on that, and we can defend that part. On the speed issue, I think, again, you have this large balance sheet because this is a way to threaten higher inflation in an environment in which you have zero policy rates, and you can reduce it at a pace that keeps inflation and inflation expectations close to target.  So it seems as if that could be dictated by events.  If you can go faster, you can go faster.  I appreciate that there might also be considerations about absorption.  And, again, even if you aggressively followed my kind of policy, I think you would get to some point where you said, “Okay.  We’re going to have to drain the remaining reserves and start to move the funds rate up because it’s just not enough.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is presenting his viewpoint and discussing different aspects of monetary policy.


Passage number 57.
 MR. HOENIG.  Can I ask President Bullard a question.  As you’re describing your strategy, you’re selling out of the portfolio.  Is that what you’re saying.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Hoenig is simply asking President Bullard to clarify his strategy.


Passage number 58.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No explanation provided.


Passage number 59.
 MR. HOENIG.  And that would have effects, but you wouldn’t actually change the fed funds rate or the interest on reserves—for how long.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 60.
 MR. BULLARD.  Well, it would be a version of option 2, so I’d wait as long as I could, I suppose.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is simply stating his opinion that he would prefer to wait as long as he could before proceeding with option 2.


Passage number 61.
 MR. HOENIG.  And conditions would tell you when to make that move—in terms of what.  Inflationary expectations, events, and so forth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 62.
 MR. BULLARD.  I’d definitely keep an eye on inflation and inflation expectations.  It is possible you could start reducing the balance sheet and you’re really not getting enough bang for your buck out of that, and then you might say, “Okay, we’re going to have to drain reserves,” and bring out the big gun and raise the funds rate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Bullard expressing his viewpoint or suggestion on keeping an eye on inflation and inflation expectations.


Passage number 63.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any statements or indications of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 64.
 MR. LACKER.  Can you repeat.  You used a tradeoff number—I just want to make sure I have it right—that a certain number of billion dollars is equivalent to a certain number of basis points.  Was that of the fed funds rate’s worth of easing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The staff can correct me.  I believe we’ve viewed $150 billion to $200 billion of securities in our portfolio as being roughly equivalent to 25 basis points.  Is that about right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 65.
 MR. ENGLISH.  We were saying that the $600 billion purchase program was roughly like a 75 basis point reduction.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. English is saying that the $600 billion purchase program is roughly equivalent to a 75 basis point reduction, implying that it is a beneficial move. However, it is not clear if the other person or people involved in the conversation agree with this viewpoint or not.


Passage number 66.
 MR. LACKER.  Does it mean if we sold $1.6 trillion it would be like having a 4 percent fed funds rate, leaving the IOR rate at 25 basis points.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a question asked by Mr. Lacker, seeking clarification on the potential impact of selling $1.6 trillion and its potential effect on the fed funds rate and the interest on reserves rate.


Passage number 67.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  You’d be going from minus 4 to 24 basis points. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We currently have about 200 basis points’ worth of ease coming from securities, according to the staff assessment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is providing a statement and a staff assessment regarding the basis points' worth of ease coming from securities.


Passage number 68.
 MR. LACKER.  Attributable to. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Attributable to our excess holdings of securities.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 69.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  I’m just doing the math.  If we got down to $1 trillion on the balance sheet, if we sold all our assets, that would be the equivalent of 4 percentage points. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Two percentage points.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply presents a factual statement about the math and calculation related to selling assets and its impact on the balance sheet.


Passage number 70.
 MR. LACKER.  But the market wouldn’t work the same, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question for clarification.


Passage number 71.
   MR. ENGLISH.  All of these are approximations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. English is simply stating that all of the mentioned items are approximations.


Passage number 72.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman, could I make a comment on that issue.  Again, I don’t think our models are a great guide in this kind of environment.  So I think what you should do is experiment with it and then see, in particular, where inflation and inflation expectations go and that would help dictate the pace. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing his opinion about the use of models in a certain environment, and President Plosser's response is not present in the given passage.


Passage number 73.
  Presumably, you would then actually raise it by 12½ basis points, and then— MR. PLOSSER.  Well, again, that’s where I was talking about the calibration.  If we were comfortable enough with the calibration, you could choose to split the difference, if you will.  I don’t know that I’m as confident about that calibration, but I would be open to discussing that.  The key, I think, is that we tie the two together, so that they’re not two independent decisions that we are making in some way; that’s what I was trying to get at. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, is expressing his uncertainty about the calibration but also his openness to discussing the possibility of splitting the difference. President Kocherlakota does not disagree with this statement.


Passage number 74.
  I realize, of course, there was no right answer to this question, but—[laughter] MR. PLOSSER.  What really matters is your explanation, Narayana.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is acknowledging that there is no objectively right answer to a question and is making a lighthearted comment about it. The laughter also indicates a lack of conflict or disagreement.


Passage number 75.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I’m going to be terse on these.  In terms of 4a, I agree with the statement.  Consistent with the view expressed in 4a, I prefer a corridor system to a floor system, ultimately.  There are definitely some economic benefits to the floor system, which research around the System has pointed to, but all in all, I think the benefits are outweighed by its relative unfamiliarity.  I agree with the statement in 4b as well, and I agree with the statement in 4c, except that I always want to be thinking about asset sales and redemptions as being a bundle, a way of reducing the balance sheet as one, so I would talk about asset sales and redemptions being implemented within a framework. Let me close by saying a word about the suggested FOMC statement about raising the fed funds rate target.  This is on page 16 of the exit strategy memo.  These are certainly early days to be talking about this kind of stuff, but there are some subtle governance issues we are going to be facing as we move into our exit strategy here.  The suggested statement includes a reference to the Board of Governors’ action on interest on reserves.  I think including the Board of Governors’ action in the FOMC statement is confusing and potentially problematic from a governance point of view.  I would, instead, make the FOMC statement about the FOMC’s actions.  The Board of Governors can release a separate statement, presumably at the same time, that could read, “Consistent with the FOMC’s change in its target for the fed funds rate, the Board of Governors voted to change the interest rate on reserves to be” whatever it is.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. In this passage, the speaker expresses agreement with various statements and offers their own suggestion for a potential change in the wording of a statement for clarity and governance reasons.


Passage number 76.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Well, our intention here was to follow what was done in the past when there were changes in the discount rate and we were aligning the discount rate with changes in the fed funds target.  We had the FOMC statement and then, at the very bottom of the press release, there were a couple of sentences saying that the Board of Governors had moved the discount rate.  So we were not aiming to do anything new here—just what we thought was the standard procedure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their intention to follow a standard procedure that has been done in the past.


Passage number 77.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I guess what I’m thinking is, maybe we should be doing something new, given the novelty of the situation.  That’s all I’m suggesting. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Both Mr. Kocherlakota and President Plosser are expressing their thoughts and suggestions, without contradicting each other.


Passage number 78.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes.  This is a question both to you, Mr. Chairman, and Narayana.  If we think about sales and the IOER–federal funds rate as substitutes, let’s suppose the Taylor rule says that the funds rate ought to be 2 percent.  Assuming that these are really substitutes, if we haven’t sold assets—and let’s just say there’s 200 basis points of ease within the portfolio—that means we need to set the IOER at 4 percent.  That means if we don’t sell, we are going to have to be raising rates faster than we might otherwise choose to do in that environment.  Am I understanding that correctly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is a question posed by Mr. Plosser seeking clarification and understanding from the Chairman and Narayana.


Passage number 79.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That is a correct interpretation of what “perfect substitutes” would mean. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That is right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states that the interpretation provided is correct and there is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 80.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Whew, I’m glad I passed that test.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And by the same token, if you sell, then you can delay the increase in the fund rate.  I would point out, just as a factual matter, that if we begin a redemptions process in December of this year, for example, that 200 basis points is going to shrink away pretty quickly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating a factual matter without any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 81.
  MR. PLOSSER.  Well, over four years, right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No.  I asked the staff to look at this, and because of the anticipation of a declining balance sheet, even though they estimate that there is a 200 basis point effect as of the fourth quarter of 2010, by the fourth quarter of 2012—that is, a year and a half from now—that would be down to 70 basis points just from redemptions.  So that part will get smaller over time, even if we just do redemptions.  And part of that is because it depends not just on the size, but on the expected path of sales.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, is providing information and discussing an estimate made by the staff.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 82.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Okay. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Are we ready for President Fisher.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. This can be inferred from the repetition of "okay" and the mention of President Fisher, implying that there is a different opinion or response from someone.


Passage number 83.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I, too, would like to commend the staff on their memo.  It was very helpful in thinking about many of the practical issues involved in implementing an exit strategy.  I think these are very difficult issues.  I have been listening to each person who has gone before me, and I completely agree with the importance of flexibility and with the principles that should be guiding the policy.  Many of the thoughts that people have already expressed I agree with, although I come to slightly different conclusions.  I am actually, in the end, going to be closer to President Kocherlakota in my views, but I think these are very fine differences, and these are just difficult issues in terms of communication.  I think we have to recognize that going forward. In approaching the questions, I too found it useful to focus on what I thought of as the underlying principles of what we’re aiming to do.  To me, the most important consideration in designing our exit strategy is to get the timing right in terms of the macroeconomic objectives that we have.  Obviously, we have the long-run objective of normalizing our balance sheet.  But in terms of the details of sequencing, I think that saying when to begin redemptions or drain reserves or exactly how this is structured should not obscure or hinder our pursuit of the appropriate policy stance. Now, in thinking about the different choices, I think the evidence shows that the effects of the LSAPs depend on the expectations of the future size and composition of our balance sheet.  That’s where I start from in terms of thinking about how this works.  I view reducing the size of our balance sheet as working through the same basic channels on the economy as increases in the funds rate, and I see these as being substitutes in terms of the macroeconomy.  I also agree with President Kocherlakota’s point that both redemptions and sales affect the size of our balance sheet, and I tend to think of those together as opposed to separately.  However, there are some critical differences that make these instruments imperfect substitutes in practice.  They have already been mentioned.  I’ll briefly go through two of them.  Although our recent experience has provided us with a much better understanding of the effects of the LSAPs than we had just a few years ago, there is still a great deal of uncertainty around these effects.  I think the uncertainties about the effects of changing LSAPs far exceed those of comparable movements in the fed funds rate, and this high degree of uncertainty suggests, per the Brainard conservatism principle, that we should follow a cautious and gradual approach to changing the balance sheet going forward. Second, compared with the fed funds rate, the public still has limited experience and understanding regarding the use of the balance sheet as a policy instrument.  This suggests that an active use of the balance sheet, as suggested in option 2, would face greater communication challenges and risks of confusing markets, compared with using the funds rate as our principal policy instrument.  These considerations, along with the operational constraints, in terms of the maximum size of asset sales, argue for a steady path of reducing our balance sheet that is preannounced and well communicated.  I don’t like the word “deterministic” because it obviously could change in response to conditions.  But there should be a relatively high hurdle to modifying the path.  I think this approach leaves the fed funds rate as a primary instrument of adjusting the stance of policy either up or down in response to change in economic conditions. This brings me to another consideration in sequencing the exit strategy:  the fact that the short rate is currently constrained by the zero lower bound.  To me, this argues for holding off on shrinking our balance sheet until the short rate is well away from the zero bound so that we have the needed flexibility to add accommodation through a rate cut if economic conditions warrant.  Again, I’m thinking that the fed funds rate is the primary instrument that you move up and down in response to a change in conditions.  So, in this way, I think I would prefer to begin the process of shrinking the balance sheet, both in terms of redemptions and in terms of sales, only after we have instituted a few rate hikes, as envisioned in option 1. Let me go through the specific questions quickly.  On number 1, again, I’ve viewed redemptions in the same way as asset sales, so I would actually prefer to hold off on any reinvestments until after we raise the funds rate.  On number 2, I prefer a path of asset sales that is preannounced and well communicated.  And on 3, my view is that we want to lift off the zero lower bound first in order to regain the flexibility to use that instrument as appropriate before we begin asset sales.  On number 4, I thought that was an apple pie question, and I’m all for apple pie, so I agree with all of the statements in number 4.  [Laughter]  I am in favor of eventually returning to an all-Treasuries portfolio with a corridor operating framework.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Just for my notes, you said to begin the redemption process after raising rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker agrees with many of the points made by previous speakers and ultimately aligns their views with President Kocherlakota's, stating that the differences are "very fine."


Passage number 84.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  And basically thinking of it symmetrically with asset sales. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  It’s 12:30 p.m.  I understand that lunch is ready.  Why don’t we recess until 1:00 p.m., bring our lunch back here, and we will still be eating at 1:00, but we’ll just recommence the meeting at that point.  Okay.  Thank you. [Lunch break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Why don’t we recommence our meeting.  We will continue with President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 85.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My preferred strategy for removing policy accommodation, like several others of you, would involve using the funds rate target supported by movements in the interest rate on reserves as the primary instrument of monetary policy.  I think asset sales should begin quickly, and I’d advocate that they should proceed at a pace that’s significantly more rapid than any of the options shown in the staff’s memo.  I think that at approximately the rate at which we purchased assets is a good benchmark.  The pace of sales should be more or less predetermined, and while we should reserve the right to alter the pace in light of incoming information, I think as President Williams said, the bar for such alterations should be set on the high side.  I’ll explain my preferences before I touch on the four “Exodus” questions. Our asset purchase program was designed to address problems in credit markets and to ease monetary policy, with short-term interest rates at their lower bound.  Credit markets seem to be functioning reasonably well right now, and the zero bound doesn’t interfere with using interest rates to remove policy accommodation. The arguments for using asset holdings as a policy tool, thus, aren’t symmetric, and they have less force when interest rates are rising.  So for me, our large-scale asset sales program—and I’m assuming we’re going to refer to this as the LSAS. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You heard it here first.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their preferred strategy for removing policy accommodation and suggesting that asset sales should begin quickly and at a more rapid pace than suggested by the staff's memo. They also explain their preference for using the funds rate target and interest rates on reserves as the primary instrument of monetary policy.


Passage number 86.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks to the staff for a couple of very nice memos, which were very helpful in thinking about these issues. I find that I can’t completely separate my current assessment of appropriate monetary policy in discussing the exit strategies here, but I’ll try to do that.  I think it is important that however we go about approaching this, we want to continue to focus on our policy goals and the loss function that we’ll be facing and make the appropriate choices in that way.  With that in mind, a couple of the—“principles” is too strong a word, but—things that I’m thinking about are that I favor an approach that allows for considerable patience in our initial steps toward tightening.  I think we want to have the opportunity that, if we start embarking upon this and things happen differently than we are expecting with the economy and inflation, we haven’t committed ourselves to a path that is too difficult.  We want to maintain flexibility, and we want to have flexibility in both directions because, again, things can happen.  We want to maintain optionality in each direction.  Now, fortunately, I think that both of the options described in the staff memos can allow for this flexibility, and I simply point to the fact that they have calibrated options 1 and 2 to have about the same amount of policy restraint imposed along the way.  So I don’t find myself in wild disagreement with either approach. I do continue to modestly favor option 1, which would entail increasing the federal funds rate before we embark on asset sales, but the way that I tend to think about monetary policy is perhaps a little too simplistically, given the complexities that we have right now.  I tend to think of it in terms of the single dimension of our policy restraint, and I think I can map a lot of what you’re talking about into that dimension. I do worry a little bit when we talk about how the funds rate is a familiar tool, we’ve used it before, and everybody understands that.  I think that’s certainly true when we’re able to put pressure on reserves the way we always have in the past.  But as soon as we start wondering about whether or not our reserve draining tools will actually be as effective as we think and whatnot, we’re going to be relying on arbitrage between interest on excess reserves and the funds rate.  And while in theory that should work, in practice I’m not quite sure how all that will play out.  If we find that we start off on that path and, it is not working out, there will be credibility risks, but at any rate, that’s the approach I favor. On the four questions, yes, I think the first step should be to stop reinvesting.  I think of this more in terms of the signaling effect that we get from that because of the unique feature of redemptions versus sales.  I think the Treasuries could be reinvested if the balance sheet, the size of it and its composition, was satisfactory, along the lines that President Lacker was suggesting.  We ultimately want to end up with a Treasury balance sheet, and so if that works, that’s fine. In terms of actively varying the pace of asset sales, that’s not my first choice.  I would use the reserve draining tools.  But if the state of monetary policy required a quicker restraint, then we’d want to consider upping asset sales faster.  Ultimately, that could be a point of compromise between the different views. In terms of sequencing, I think option 1 is best in my opinion, so that would be sales later—again, making sure that the response to the ultimate stance of monetary policy is really important.  And I agree with all of the last three statements as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker mentions that they do not find themselves in wild disagreement with either approach and that they agree with all of the last three statements.


Passage number 87.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As I think about exit strategy, my philosophy would be driven by three guiding principles.  First, tightening occurs when we shrink our balance sheet or raise interest rates.  If we were to choose to shrink the balance sheet in the late fall, as in the Tealbook, that would, in effect, be our first monetary policy tightening, even though the federal funds rate would still be at the zero bound.  In my view, the start of any tightening action should be primarily focused on when, looking ahead two to three years, the tightening is needed to prevent us from overshooting our inflation or employment mandate.  Second, returning to more traditional monetary policy is desirable and requires shrinking the balance sheet.  We should shrink the balance sheet in a way consistent with achieving the right macroeconomic outcome.  In the short run, that probably means relying on a floor system.  And third, while returning to an all-Treasury portfolio is a long-term goal, it should not be a short-term goal.  Given the fragility of the housing market, I would not sell any of the mortgage-backed securities until after we have commenced raising short-term interest rates. So how would I apply these principles to the actual sequencing.  Once tightening was appropriate to avoid overshooting on inflation or employment mandates, I would start by allowing mortgage-backed securities to roll off the balance sheet as they matured, which would begin the process of shrinking the balance sheet.  After determining the impact of not reinvesting the proceeds for mortgage-backed securities on long-term interest rates and the economy, and assuming further tightening was appropriate, I would begin allowing both Treasury and mortgage-backed securities to roll off the balance sheet as the securities matured.  If even more tightening was necessary, I would consider selling short-dated Treasury securities, which would reduce our balance sheet more quickly without realizing significant capital losses or having as large an effect on long rates or mortgage-backed securities. If we use a rough rule of thumb that’s a little bit more conservative than what was discussed before—$250 billion in excess reserve reductions as roughly equivalent to a 25 basis point reduction of the federal funds rate—we have roughly six 25 basis point increases in balance sheet reductions.  Should the economy falter, we could slow down redemptions, and if further tightening was appropriate, we could speed up the time we would return to a normalized size for the balance sheet.  Given the natural runoffs in the balance sheet once we begin the redemptions, the balance sheet does begin to shrink relatively quickly if we allow both Treasury and mortgage-backed securities to run off, as the Chairman earlier observed. If even more tightening is necessary before our balance sheet size has normalized, we would begin by raising interest on excess reserves.  Given the Tealbook forecast, I can imagine this would be necessary a year or more after we begin the redemption process.  I would use the interest on excess reserves as our principal short-term interest rate until we had normalized the balance sheet.  After we had normalized the size of our balance sheet and begun raising interest rates, I would commence with sales of mortgage-backed securities.  However, depending on housing conditions, the status of Freddie and Fannie, and our willingness to realize capital losses, I could imagine extending the asset sales to be more gradual and to have an all-Treasuries portfolio by 2020. In terms of the four questions asked, for the first one, I am fine with reinvesting the principal payments from agency securities, but as I just mentioned, I would stagger it.  I would start with mortgage-backed securities and then let the Treasury securities roll off.  The reason I want to shrink the balance sheet is that I have somewhat more uncertainty about how the tools are going to work with large excess balances, so I would actually prefer a strategy that gets our balance sheet to shrink initially, just to have more certainty about how our short-run tools are going to work. In terms of the second question, I think we could conduct it much the way we did the increase in securities.  We would announce a reduction in the balance sheet over a fixed period of time, but it would be conditioned on what the economic outcomes were, and we could change either the time or the amount, but the presumption would be that we wouldn’t change it unless something relatively significant had occurred. In terms of sequencing in the third question, one of the challenges is that sequencing in part does depend on conditions.  So if we’re going to have a very gradual tightening, then a strategy of asset redemption may actually take care of, at least initially, some of the tightening that we would need to do.  If it needs to be more rapid, then we have to include not only asset redemptions, but also the interest on excess reserves going up. And in terms of the three statements in the fourth question, despite all of us having guiding principles that are different, I think we all agree on all three of the statements. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It shows there is constructive ambiguity.  [Laughter]  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It presents the viewpoint and strategy of Mr. Rosengren regarding the exit strategy, but there is no conflicting opinion expressed.


Passage number 88.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I, too, would like to thank the staff for their framing of a complex set of issues and tradeoffs.  Before I answer any questions, I’d like to express some preliminary views. First, as others have said, I see the endgame as a return to a balance sheet configuration that aligns with more-normal conduct of monetary policy and has the best chance of effectiveness in shaping economic conditions consistent with our mandates.  I see that configuration as all-Treasuries, scaled at a level that supports the use of the fed funds rate target as the central policy instrument operating within a corridor structure. To some extent, removal of accommodation will effectively begin with an announcement effect resulting from our first communication about exit.  I think it is possible with good communication to limit the announcement effect on the announcement of ceasing reinvestments, and I think we may be able to limit an announcement effect even with the initiation of small asset sales, but this will require skillful communication, and it seems to me that the timing would best coincide with the Chairman’s press conferences so that he can explain that a rise in the fed funds rate is not necessarily imminent. The unknown of the announcement effect associated with the first step may be an argument for not taking this action too far in advance of the decision to implement the full exit plan.  I think the objective should be that any substantial announcement effects on long rates would occur when we have decided to actively begin removal of accommodation and not before.  Said differently, I’d place a high priority on avoiding any actions that inadvertently cause policy tightening to begin before the Committee has arrived at a consensus that tightening is warranted by economic conditions.  Because in my view we will be in new territory in unwinding the policy actions of the last three years, I prefer an approach that recognizes that there are a number of unknowns.  This in my mind argues for a simple and conservative plan that minimizes the risks of market distortions and can be relatively easily communicated.  I would favor an accelerated pace of asset sales only to the extent that policy effectiveness and market function are not put at risk. With those preliminary comments, let me give answers to the four questions.  For question 1, I agree that the first step should be stopping reinvestment of principal payment of agency securities, and I would also stop reinvestment of Treasuries at that time. For question 2, along with the question of starting the cessation of some or all reinvestments comes the question of when.  My thinking is that we would stop reinvestment when the Committee agrees that conditions have evolved to the point that any notion of QE3 can be taken off the table.  I favor a predetermined and announced-in-advance path for asset sales.  There may be some learning involved as the asset sales proceed, so my preference would be for an approach that is relatively conservative in terms of the pace of sales.  As I said, I do not view a quick reduction of the balance sheet as an end in itself.  I would not want to implement sales at a pace that would add a lot of de facto tightening beyond what we intend with interest rate policy.  I think it will be possible to communicate a predetermined asset sales program and at the same time convey that the program could be revised or halted if conditions dictate. For question 3, I would prefer to start asset sales simultaneously with beginning to move the fed funds rate and the interest rate on excess reserves.  Given the unknowns, I’m wary of too much sequencing and too many moving parts that have to be coordinated.  In my thinking, when the Committee decides it’s time to move, all the wheels are set in motion. I agree with the thrust of the statements in question 4.  In some respects, I think the exact process we use to remove policy accommodation is less important than our communications about the timing, magnitude, and conditionality of our planned actions.  I would not want any early communications on a framework to impact private expectations in such a way that we end up with a de facto removal of accommodation before we make the decision to change the policy stance. To summarize, the approach I would recommend tries to achieve simplicity and the least risk, and it’s really a two-step approach.  At a point not long before active exit, we cease reinvestment of both MBS and Treasuries.  Then, simultaneously, we raise the interest on reserves rate and the fed funds rate target, and begin a gradual, orderly, preannounced program of asset sales.  We leave to the Desk the decision on draining operations as a tactical move to improve the ability to hit the fed funds rate target, and we communicate that the pace of sales will be reviewed periodically in light of economic conditions.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lockhart is expressing his preliminary views and opinions on the topic at hand without conflicting with any other viewpoints.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 89.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thanks, Mr. Chairman.  I wanted to follow up on this point that I learned from Vice Chairman Dudley last August, and now I’m apparently going to have to unlearn it.  [Laughter] My concern is that if we adopt a policy of redeeming MBS—suppose we do that in December 2011—and conditions soften in 2012 and longer-term rates fall, we will then be put in the position of stopping the policy at that point, because it could well be at that stage that we will begin to see people starting to pay down their mortgages more rapidly, just as we did in August 2010.  My vision, as I think I have heard from others around the table, is that the balance sheet track should be going on slowly downward in the background.  If we redeem MBS, we are going to be in the position of balance sheet management immediately.  That is what I took away from that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Kocherlakota, expresses concern about redeeming MBS (mortgage-backed securities) and suggests that it may not be a favorable policy decision. He disagrees with the idea of balance sheet management immediately and instead advocates for a slow downward trajectory of the balance sheet track. This contention is evident in his statement, "I wanted to follow up on this point that I learned from Vice Chairman Dudley last August, and now I’m apparently going to have to unlearn it."


Passage number 90.
 MR. TARULLO.  I disagree.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And second, relating to what Governor Tarullo said, the most important thing, of course, is to meet our monetary policy objectives, and the pace and sequencing of our actions will be driven by those objectives.  In particular, the fact that we’re discussing exit does not necessarily carry implications for near-term monetary policy. Now, getting into more substance—first, I think most people were willing to say that they thought that the federal funds rate/IOER should be the principal tool for responding to macroeconomic developments.  I would add that, as a practical matter and taking into account President Lacker’s very astute comments, to make IOER effective, it will probably need to be supported by the draining tools that we’ve discussed in this room for some time.  So I would put the funds rate /IOER in the center of our strategy. Second, I would say that our forward guidance and our communication will provide as much warning as possible as we move toward the point where we begin to raise the short-term interest rate. The remainder of the points, some of which may perhaps be controversial, bear on how we’re going to deal with the balance sheet.  The first one is that I believe that a pretty strong majority agreed with the view that restarting redemptions—and I wouldn’t be specific about agencies versus Treasuries, et cetera—could be something that might happen relatively early in the process.  Next—and here I would turn to the three statements on the sheet—one objective we have is that in the intermediate term we want to return to a normal monetary policy framework.  I don’t think it’s time to start talking to the public about corridors and floors, but maybe a “normal framework” that I think most people would interpret as something close to a corridor system. The second of these principles is that our exit strategy involves going to an all-Treasury balance sheet. The third principle bears on the question of the pace and conditionality of asset sales, and there we got quite a bit of divergence, particularly when weighted by enthusiasm.  Now, a majority of the speakers did prefer a relatively steady pace of sales, although a couple of those folks were for very rapid sales and others were for more gradual sales, so it’s a little hard to rank those views.  On the other hand, I think most of the people who favored a relatively gradual sales process were open to the proposition that the pace of sales could be adjusted if macroeconomic conditions called for it.  So I would propose to summarize that detailed discussion with the last of the three bullet points, which says that there will be a framework that will be “communicated to the public in advance, and at a pace that potentially could be adjusted in response to changes in economic or financial conditions.”  I think the “potentially could be adjusted” leans a little bit toward nonconditionality, but I think it includes the possibility that we can respond and we will respond if economic conditions warrant. Finally—and this is a difficult one—When will the asset sales take place.  Now, again, in simple counts, a pretty clear majority, but again with different motivations and different perspectives, favored asset sales after the increase in the federal funds rate.  We had a few people who suggested a contemporaneous move, such as President Plosser and President Lockhart.  President Bullard, of course, made his very interesting intervention about the LIFO principle.  A few people, like President Lacker, wanted to move very quickly, so that, implicitly, sales would come very early.  I think, looking at the balance of the discussion, what I’d like to do is say something like “most, but not all,” or “many,” or something like that, “saw sales as taking place,” and I would say here, again, vaguely, “relatively late in the process,” which would encompass, perhaps, “contemporaneous with the increase in rates,” like President Hoenig suggested, or “afterward”—but again, acknowledging that some people had a different perspective. So these would be some interim things that I would try to report, again, as asked.  Some of these details may not come up, but I suspect some of them will.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is summarizing the points discussed, acknowledging different perspectives, but there is no clear disagreement or argument.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 91.
 MR. FISHER.  Could you clarify, Mr. Chairman, that last point.  I have a feeling that will come up. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The last point, yes.  I’ve got a little diagram here that shows the interest rate being increased, and then the question is:  Where do asset sales come on this timeline.  I note that a few people were in the contemporaneous camp—and, President Fisher, I have you there with an arrow pointed to the left, meaning that you’re happy to go along with the Bullard perspective.  That being said, a pretty significant majority still were on the right side of that line—that is, suggesting that asset sales should begin after the interest rate increases would begin, and that’s consistent, I think, with the view that the federal funds rate is the key policy tool.  I think this is an area where there was legitimate and interesting ongoing discussion that we shouldn’t cut off. Again, what I proposed was to hedge in two ways.  One, we would say that “most, but not all,” or “many,” or something like that, “preferred,” and then to use some term like “relatively late in the process” to encompass contemporaneous or later sales.  This may be even a little too weak, but that was my thought. I’d be happy to go through any of these again.  I don’t promise even that they’ll come out exactly as I just spoke them.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage describes a disagreement among participants regarding the timeline for asset sales in relation to interest rate increases. The speaker mentions that a significant majority believed asset sales should begin after interest rate increases, while others, including President Fisher, were in favor of contemporaneous sales. This ongoing discussion suggests contention and disagreement.


Passage number 92.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I have just two observations.  I think you’re being asked to synthesize a lot of diverse views, and I understand that.  I think your first point was that the asset sales or the reduction in the balance sheet would depend on economic conditions.  I would encourage you to say that they can either be slowed down or speeded up, because I think the tone of how you say it will suggest that it’s only likely to go one way.  It would be helpful to say that it could go either faster or slower depending on economic conditions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Well, “at a pace that potentially could be adjusted in response to changes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Plosser is providing a suggestion to the person he is speaking to.


Passage number 93.
” MR. PLOSSER.  Up or down. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, up or down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement or question without expressing any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 94.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Okay.  On the last part, I would recommend against the phrase “relatively late” because I think that connotes a longer period of time, and it may not be longer.  I would suggest that you consider something like, “Many of the participants agreed that asset sales would begin after”—just “after”—“initial rate increases.”  And “after” can mean it could be short or it could be long.  It just leaves it undefined. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Can I say “after” if I say “many” and I’m very clear that there’s still an open debate on this question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser disagrees with the phrase "relatively late" and proposes using "after" instead. He argues that "relatively late" implies a longer period of time, while "after" leaves it undefined and can be either short or long. He also acknowledges that there is an open debate on this question.


Passage number 95.
 MR. LACKER.  Would it help to say “after in the sequence.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  In the sequence we had last year the redemptions weren’t much of an issue.  Now we have redemptions early or one of the first steps.  We have changes in the language, obviously, as one of the first steps.  We have in the center of this process the increase in interest rates supported by draining tools.  And then, most, but certainly not all—and we have an ongoing debate—preferred that the sales begin after the first increase in the IOER. President Bullard, I know you’re going to be giving your point of view, and I think it’s an interesting point of view, but I’ll try to make sure that I am clear that these things are not fine lines.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different steps and actions in a sequence without expressing any disagreement or argument.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 96.
 MR. BULLARD.  I do think you’re summarizing the disparate views of the Committee fairly well, but I think this issue about redemptions being a lot different from asset sales is potentially confusing.  In a sense we are starting with the balance sheet if you went by the sequence, but we’re going to start in a certain way with the balance sheet. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, is expressing his disagreement or contention with a particular point made in the passage, specifically regarding the issue of redemptions being different from asset sales. He feels that this distinction may be potentially confusing.


Passage number 97.
 MR. BULLARD.  And it’s just that the Committee seems to be reluctant to go as far as I would in wanting to adjust that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, it’s true that they both shrink the balance sheet, but redemptions are predictable, passive, but I agree that there is sort of a LIFO principle there though.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It seems to express a level of agreement or understanding between the speaker and the Committee, although there may be some differences in opinion about how far to adjust certain aspects.


Passage number 98.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  So I agree with that.  Any further comments.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is agreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard agrees with the previous statement and there is no indication of disagreement or contention between the speakers.


Passage number 99.
 MR. TARULLO.  Can I just ask a question.  In the same spirit in which I spoke in the go-round, I guess I would just ask the question of how deeply you want to get into this tomorrow, given where the Committee is right now.  That is, one strategy is to try fairly, as I think you have in your summation, to characterize how the Committee breaks down on a number of substantive dimensions with some specificity.  Another would be to try to identify genuine consensus where it’s there, and I think you’ve got it on those three true–false questions, but in other areas, maybe intentionally to generalize so as not to get too deeply into some of these questions.  For example, as I was listening to these guys at the end of the table, I found myself thinking a little bit differently about the redemption versus asset sales point than I had before, and to me it’s not so fundamental to our approach.  Maybe it is to some people.  I guess I just wonder whether in a press conference you want to begin talking about those things, thereby potentially inviting further specific questions.  My question is not a rhetorical one.  It’s a genuine one. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think I have to balance, as you say.  I mean, I can’t go into too great a detail, but I hardly can deny that we had this conversation because the minutes will come out and many of these issues will be on the table.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 100.
 MR. FISHER.  I want to second that point.  I think the more you begin to process, the more you’re likely to get questions that force you further to process.  I think providing these general outlines and a direction is what counts here.  You’re going to have subsequent press conferences, but it could be a trap.  So I agree with Governor Tarullo on this front, and I would just be as general as possible. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  On the other hand, the point of this is to be more transparent and to provide some help and guidance.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. Even though Mr. Fisher mentions a potential trap, there is no clear disagreement or contention expressed in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 101.
 MR. FISHER.  Still, you’re going to get questions on specifics of sequence and all of these kinds of things if you’re not careful. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I obviously won’t be able to answer detailed questions, because I don’t know the answer.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, disagrees with the idea that he will be able to answer detailed questions because he does not know the answer.


Passage number 102.
 MR. TARULLO.  I don’t think this is a matter of being more or less transparent in a sense because I think you’re trying to communicate where we are at this point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I will try to do that, but I did want to make sure I knew where we were.  [Laughter]  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Mr. Tarullo is expressing his perspective on the matter of transparency and communication, and there is no opposing viewpoint or argument present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 103.
 MR. LACKER.  I find myself very sympathetic to Governor Tarullo’s points.  On this last issue, which seems to be the one where it comes to a head, do you worry that just mentioning the views of a majority might lead a stampede of opinion to focus on that and treat it as if it’s a decision.  And the constructive alternative would be to mention that there are a range of views.  The majority seems to favor, but there are those who have other views and we haven’t decided. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I said I would say that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates that there is disagreement or contention regarding a particular issue. The speaker expresses concern that mentioning the views of the majority might lead to a stampede of opinion and suggests that it would be constructive to mention that there are a range of views, indicating that there are those who have different perspectives. This suggests that there is disagreement among the group.


Passage number 104.
 MR. LACKER.  Oh, okay.  Mention the other views as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I will be clear.  Where appropriate, I will give a range of views.  I just don’t want to be clearly less forthcoming than the minutes will be on something like that, if asked.  I’m not going to go out and say, “Here’s the deal, guys,” and give them the story.  But if asked about that, I’ll try to convey the sense that there was a range of views. All right.  Well, I hope that all the press conferences will not generate this problem, but thank you for that conversation.  Any other comments.  [No response] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, wouldn’t this be a great time for a break.  [Laughter]  I’m informed the coffee is at—three o’clock. MS. DANKER.  We can just go look and see if it’s there. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  My right-hand woman is going to go look.  Is it ready. MS. DANKER.  Keep going. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We should keep going.  Okay.  We can hear the staff presentation and then at three o’clock we will have a coffee break.  So let me turn this over now to David Wilcox.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing how they will address different views and opinions during a press conference.


Passage number 105.
 MR. NATALUCCI.4  I will be referring to the package labeled “Material for Briefing on FOMC Participants’ Economic Projections.”  Exhibit 1 depicts the broad contours of your current projections for 2011 through 2013 and over the longer run.  As shown, you continue to expect a gradual economic recovery over the next three years, with GDP growth—the top panel—picking up modestly for this year as a whole and accelerating further in 2012 and a bit more in 2013, while the unemployment rate—the second panel—slowly trends lower.  With regard to inflation—the bottom two panels—although you anticipate that total PCE inflation will move up this year, you project this increase to be temporary, with headline inflation moving back in line with core inflation in 2012 and 2013.  However, you generally see core inflation gradually edging higher over the next two years. Exhibit 2 reports the central tendencies and ranges of your projections for 2011 through 2013 and over the longer run; the corresponding information about your January projections is indicated in italics, and the current and January Tealbook projections are included as memo items.  On balance, your forecasts for this meeting point to somewhat lower GDP growth and slightly higher inflation over the forecast period than you projected at the time of the January meeting.  In your forecast narratives, almost all of you indicated that these changes were the result of weaker-than-expected incoming data and higher commodity prices.  A number of you also pointed to greater odds of a tighter stance of fiscal policy during the forecast period.  All of you marked down your projections for real GDP growth this year, with the central tendency of your estimates, shown in the top panel, noticeably lower than in January:  Most of you now anticipate that real GDP will increase about 3 to  4 The materials used by Mr. Natalucci are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 3¼ percent in 2011, versus nearly 3½ to 4 percent in the previous forecast.  By contrast, the revisions to your growth forecasts for 2012 and 2013 were modest:  You continue to see the recovery strengthening, with the pace of real GDP growth stepping up to about 3½ to 4¼ percent in 2012 and remaining near those rates in 2013.  This general pattern of revisions is similar to that reflected in the updates to the Tealbook forecast since January. Your unemployment rate projections are summarized in the second panel.  Reflecting the decline in the unemployment rate in recent months, nearly all of you lowered your forecast for the average unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of this year, with the central tendency of your projections for 2011 at roughly 8½ to 8¾ percent, versus about 8¾ to 9 percent in the previous SEP.  Your projections for 2012 and 2013 continue to trace a gradual downward path that is little changed from the projections submitted in January.  Consistent with your expectations of a relatively moderate economic recovery, most of you project that the unemployment rate will be about 6¾ to 7¼ percent even in late 2013—still well above the about 5¼ to 5½ percent central tendency of your estimates of the unemployment rate that would prevail over the longer run in the absence of further shocks (shown in the right-hand column).  This general pattern of revisions is broadly similar to the updates in the Tealbook forecast since January. Turning to inflation—the bottom two panels—all of you raised your forecast for total PCE inflation this year, with the central tendency of your estimates significantly higher and the dispersion of your projections noticeably wider than in January.  Most of you now anticipate that headline inflation will run about 2 to 2¾ percent this year, versus about 1¼ to 1¾ percent in your January projections.  However, most of you expect the increase in headline inflation to be temporary, with the central tendency of your estimates moving down to about 1¼ to 2 percent next year and running about 1½ to 2 percent in 2013, at or below the about 1¾ to 2 percent central tendency of your estimates of the “mandate consistent” inflation rate shown in the right-hand column.  The central tendencies of your projections for core PCE inflation for 2011 and 2012 have shifted up a bit and now run about 1¼ to 1½ percent this year and 1¼ to 1¾ percent next year before rising to nearly 1½ to 2 percent in 2013.  The Tealbook forecasts for both total and core inflation in 2012 and 2013 are in the lower part of the central tendency ranges of your projections. Your longer-run projections—detailed in the column to the right—anticipate that over time the annual rate of increase in real GDP will converge to about 2½ to 2¾ percent, with an unemployment rate of about 5¼ to 5½ percent and total PCE inflation between about 1¾ and 2 percent.  Of note, the central tendency for your projections of the unemployment rate in the longer run is now somewhat narrower than the 5 to 6 percent interval reported in January. Your final exhibit summarizes your assessments of the uncertainty and risks that you attach to your projections.  As indicated in the two panels on the left-hand side, a sizable majority of you continue to judge that the levels of uncertainty associated with your projections for both real GDP and inflation—as well as for the unemployment rate (not shown)—are greater than the average levels that have prevailed over the past 20 years. As shown in the upper-right panel, about half of you continue to view the risks to output growth as balanced, although a number of you now judge that those risks have become tilted to the downside.  The most frequently mentioned downside risks to GDP growth included further increases in commodity prices, a tighter-than-anticipated stance of fiscal policy, and an even-weaker-than-expected housing sector. Your assessments of the risks attending your inflation projection—shown in the bottom-right panel—have shifted noticeably to the upside, reflecting concerns about further increases in commodity prices, a potential rise in inflation expectations, and the possibility that the current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will be maintained for too long.  These concerns, along with the upward revisions to your projections for inflation that I noted earlier, help explain why many of you believe that the Committee should begin to remove monetary policy accommodation earlier than is assumed in the Tealbook.  This concludes my prepared remarks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Questions for our colleagues.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It is simply summarizing the projections and assessments made by the participants.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 106.
 MR. FISHER.  I have two questions for Nathan.  We are still accommodative.  The Brits appear to have stopped, but, as you mentioned, the Europeans are tightening and others are tightening.  What do the Europeans see that we don’t see.  In your opinion, is it a difference in mandates, or do they see the world differently.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is suggesting that the Europeans and Americans have different views on monetary policy and are tightening or loosening accordingly. They question whether this difference is due to mandates or a different worldview.


Passage number 107.
 MR. SHEETS.  I think it’s a variety of factors.  The difference in mandate and perspective may be a bit of it.  But the real challenge for the ECB is the heterogeneity of performance and what the ECB Governing Council is trying to do is trying to balance this.   The German economy is just absolutely performing at an extraordinary pace.  Unemployment there in February actually fell to 6.3 percent, so they are getting to a point where unemployment is almost 3 percentage points lower than when the crisis started.  And Germany is 30 percent of the euro-area economy.  So you have the vast majority of that economy performing at a pretty solid pace and where slack is more limited.  And then you’ve got a fraction of the economy that is struggling in extraordinary ways.  But, you know, putting that into perspective, Portugal, Ireland, and Greece together amount to roughly 6 to 7 percent of GDP in the euro area.  So it is very small; it’s just a small fraction of Germany. We have looked at this by a variety of metrics, and it seems like where they are is reasonable based at least on one benchmark Taylor rule.  So I think that the differences really equate to differences in economic conditions between the United States and the euro area.  But then I think, as a secondary factor, there are some differences in perspective and mandate that also are having an effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It provides an overview of the factors affecting the European Central Bank (ECB) and acknowledges differences in economic conditions between the United States and the euro area as well as potential differences in perspective and mandate.


Passage number 108.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, when we talk about our U.S. situation, one of the restraining factors we envision on inflationary pressures, even though we revised our numbers upward, is our amount of slack, and particularly significant unemployment.  So I’m wondering, Nathan, if you would describe to us how much slack you see outside the United States.  And, how well and how able are we to measure global slack.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It seems to be a request for information and clarification.


Passage number 109.
 MR. SHEETS.  Okay.  Well, to answer your second question first, our ability to measure global slack is very, very limited.  We do our best; we have some benchmark estimates, but there are huge confidence bands around our estimates.  But our sense is that right now activity for the emerging market economies is pretty well close to what our best guess of potential is.  And for what it is worth, we have sort of massaged some of the IMF estimates.  That said, our estimate of slack and what the IMF is seeing are not that different.  For the major emerging market economies, output is approaching potential.  Then, as I described, the situation in Europe is that the vast majority of that economy is performing pretty well, but then you’ve got this extraordinarily soft spot where, frankly, I don’t even know how to begin to think about what the output gap is—in Spain, for instance, where you’ve got a 20 percent unemployment rate, or in Ireland.  I do believe that there’s a fair amount of slack in the United Kingdom, but, on the other hand, you’ve got offsets there with inertia in the inflation process that I don’t fully understand.  And then, Canada seems to be performing very strongly. So my sense is that, for the global economy as a whole, there is still a little bit of slack mainly in certain industrial countries, but the global economy is performing very well, and the amount of slack is diminishing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is providing their own assessment and analysis of the global economy and acknowledges the limitations of measuring global slack. They also mention similarities and differences in estimates with the IMF. Overall, there is no conflict or disagreement presented.


Passage number 110.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement "Thank you." made by Mr. Fisher does not indicate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 111.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Again, for Nathan.  At least if you’ve followed the press, there has been an intensifying discussion of Chinese inflation and their tightening.  Do you see any concern that they will actually have to tighten enough to materially slow down their growth rate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for the opinion of Nathan regarding the concern of Chinese inflation and whether it will slow down their growth rate.


Passage number 112.
 MR. SHEETS.  Chinese inflation has been creeping upward.  The latest reading was 5½ percent, 12-month change, which is higher than what they are comfortable with.  The Chinese authorities are moving their monetary policy, both interest rates and reserve requirements, as well as a number of the quantitative tools that they have—maybe these days we would call them macroprudential instruments; previously, we would have called them interventions in the economy [laughter]—to try to rein in credit.  And it seems like that they are having some success.  So our baseline forecast for China is one where the Chinese economy slows to 8 or 8½ percent, and inflation comes down some, but, as you point out, I would say there are both upside and downside risks around that forecast.  It may be that the economy doesn’t slow as much as we think it will, and then the authorities will really have to put on the brakes.  That could generate an outcome there of sharper slowing than what we expect. That said, the Chinese authorities have been faced with these kinds of problems a number of times over the last decade, and each time have been successful in guiding the economy onto the smooth-landing course, and that is our expectation again.  If something different happened there, then our outlook for the global economy would be quite a bit different.  We really are getting to a point where China is becoming another engine of global economic growth, and without it we would have a softer global outlook than what I’ve discussed. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing information about Chinese inflation and the potential impact on the global economy.


Passage number 113.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a question about the debt ceiling.  As noted in the Tealbook, it appears that investors are still pretty sanguine that some kind of deal will be reached, and that the debt ceiling will be raised by July.  In my own thinking, though, I see this as being a risk that we should take account of.  I was wondering what the staff perceives to be the economic and financial risks or consequences if the debt ceiling really isn’t raised.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents a question and a statement of personal opinion, but there is no contention or disagreement between different perspectives or parties.


Passage number 114.
 MR. SACK.  As I mentioned in my briefing, I think the markets are very sanguine about the debt ceiling issue.  It’s hard to find any evidence that they are anticipating a significant problem.  I mentioned the Treasury bill curve, which doesn’t show any effects.  Implied volatility of long rates has come down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker simply states their opinion and observations about the markets' reaction to the debt ceiling issue.


Passage number 115.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Markets have been wrong, though, before.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement indicates that markets have been wrong in the past, implying a general agreement on the subject.


Passage number 116.
 MR. SACK.  Well, my point was going to be that many of us are surprised that there is not a bit more concern.  I think it’s uncertain how the Treasury would deal with the situation.  We know they have a set of tools that they would employ.  But if pushed to the brink, there is the question of what other steps they may take to be able to service the debt. If it went to the worst-case scenario where there was actually a default-type event on U.S. Treasury debt, I think it would be a significant market event.  And the effects would be in the directions you would expect—a bigger risk premium priced into the Treasury curve, a weaker dollar, and downward pressure on U.S. asset prices if foreign investors and others reevaluate the situation here.  So I think it could be consequential if we got there, but certainly our hope and expectation is that we won’t end up there. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  [No response]  Okay.  Seeing none, I understand now the coffee is ready, so why don’t we take a 20-minute break and be back at 3:25 p.m.  [Coffee break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Hope that was refreshing.  We are ready for our go-round on the economy, and we’ll start with President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing surprise and uncertainty about the lack of concern regarding the situation and discussing potential consequences if the worst-case scenario were to occur. However, there is no indication of disagreement or conflicting viewpoints presented in the passage.


Passage number 117.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The judgment on the data since our last meeting is a split decision.  Labor markets are improving, albeit slowly, but spending is slower than I expected.  Most of the good news has come from the labor markets.  Payroll employment in recent months is growing at a rate consistent with a gradual decline in the unemployment rate.  The unemployment rate has fallen a full percentage point over the past four months, to 8.8 percent, lower than I expected last fall. This improvement in the labor market is still not affecting labor costs, with wages and salaries growing quite slowly.  The quiescence in wages and salaries is consistent with substantial slack in the labor market.  This assessment of slack is consistent with the significant revision in the JOLTS data, which now show many fewer vacancies over the past five years.  The revision was primarily a result of reestimating the birth-death model, which had overestimated the number of new firms and job openings being created during the crisis.  The very low quit rate also suggests that considerable slack remains in the labor market.  A worker concerned about the outlook would be reticent to quit a job for fear of the inability to secure better employment elsewhere.  While the quit rate has risen off its lows, it remains substantially below its level after the last recession.  With existing workers reticent to move and the low participation rate indicating that opportunities are not attracting workers back into the labor market, we need much more improvement in labor markets than we have seen to date. While progress in labor markets has been slower than I hoped but more than I forecast, recent data on spending have been slower than I hoped and less than I forecast.  GDP growth over the past four quarters has averaged only 2.8 percent, just slightly above potential.  At the beginning of the year, I had expected growth in the first quarter to be well above potential, but now it looks as if growth will fall well short of that. Over the past four months, most forecasters have been revising down their first-quarter estimate with each new data release.  Like many of these forecasters, I have been surprised by weaker-than-expected consumption, housing, and state and local spending.  A key question is:  Given the surprise in incoming data and the likelihood of more fiscal tightening than I originally expected, how much of this weakness should be carried into future quarters.  While I’m assuming that this is a lull rather than a trend, the strength in spending for this year is in the forecast but has yet to be reflected in the data. Despite the significant food and energy shocks, my estimate of core inflation, like that of the Tealbook, remains well below 2 percent over the forecast period.  I focus on core inflation because over the period from 1985 to the present, whenever total inflation has diverged from core inflation, total has tended to return to core, perhaps consistent with well-anchored expectations.  While we need to continue to monitor inflation expectations and inflation trends, the evidence to date is consistent with inflation over the forecast horizon remaining under 2 percent. Like the Tealbook, my forecast has an unemployment rate at the end of 2013 well above full employment, and core and total PCE inflation well below 2 percent.  However, my forecast achieves this outcome with a federal funds rate that remains at the zero bound longer than assumed in the Tealbook.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is simply providing their analysis and assessment of the data.


Passage number 118.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have talked to a number of business contacts throughout the Ninth District over the past six weeks, and the high rate of headline inflation was very much on their minds.  One concern was that elevated oil and food prices would drive down demand for other goods and so choke off the recovery.  But the other real concern was that headline inflation would leak into what we at the Fed like to term “underlying inflation” and generate a persistent high-inflation scenario. In terms of the latter concern, many retailers pointed out that increases in input prices were putting upward pressures on their costs.  However, they remained uncertain about their ability to pass those cost increases on to consumers.  One offered story, though, is that they believe that the current high rate of headline inflation will give them, quote–unquote, “more cover” to initiate price increases in nonfood and non-energy goods and services.  According to this story, a firm can raise its prices more rapidly because households believe that all of their prices are rising more rapidly.  This story would mean that the apparently transitory increase in headline inflation has the potential to generate a self-fulfilling increase in expectations about core inflation—a self-fulfilling increase that could well prove to be persistent.  This story—that transitory movements in headline inflation can translate into persistent movements and inflationary expectations—is one that bears watching.  Fortunately, there is little evidence so far that this upward pressure on longer-term inflationary expectations is happening.  For example, the five-year, five-year forward breakevens remain in historical ranges.  The Cleveland Fed’s measure of expected inflation over the next 10 years, which President Pianalto was just referencing—I like that, because it attempts to strip away both liquidity and risk premium affects—has risen since last summer, but it does remain below 2 percent. So medium-term and longer-term inflation expectations do seem stable for now, but this risk that the transitory becomes permanent is one that we need to be prepared for.  And I’m not sure that we are.  If we look at our standard monetary policy rules, they are silent about how to respond to changes in longer-run inflationary expectations.  What triggers are we using to tell us that longer-run inflation expectations have risen.  Do breakevens need to rise to 3½ percent, 4 percent, 4½ percent.  Do the Cleveland Fed measures need to hit 2.2 percent, 2.5 percent.  How aggressive should we be if the economy were to hit these triggers.  As far as I can tell, we don’t have a systematic approach to dealing with this kind of scenario, and I think we do need one. In contrast, our policy rules are clear that the level of accommodation should track core inflation.  I took what President Evans was describing from the very interesting work that was being done in Chicago as proposing not tracking core inflation but some filtered vision of core, which is trying to tease out the persistent component of core.  That would be different from the kind of rules we have traditionally been using, and it would be interesting to see if those kinds of rules, using historical data, would actually perform better than the rules we’ve typically used.  But for now, I think I would rather stick to the rules the Committee has typically used, the ones that track core.  And as a result, and as my memo on reducing accommodation indicated, I am going to be tracking PCE core inflation carefully in thinking about the appropriate timing for reducing policy accommodation. The Tealbook now forecasts that core PCE inflation will be 1.4 percent over 2011.  My own outlook has not changed that much.  It continues to be that PCE core inflation will be 1.4 percent or possibly even higher.  And our own rules indicate that the FOMC should respond to that increase in core inflation by raising the fed funds rate.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply presenting their own views and concerns about inflation and monetary policy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 119.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First of all, our region of the country is doing well-to-booming.  If you look at the downside, our housing market is comparable to other areas where there was a buildup of supply that exceeded the buildup in household formation; that we’re working through.  Once you get by that, our manufacturing sector came down slightly in our most recent survey, but that was from a record high and we are seeing that continue to expand.  Our retail sales did slow down in the first part of the quarter, but did pick up pretty significantly in March, which, from our point of view, is very positive.  Agriculture is continuing to do very well—a boom—and energy is also in a boom environment. To add an anecdote on my concern for leverage, I think it is worth sharing this.  We have a pretty sizable energy company, recently formed in the past five years.  It shifted its strategy toward oil, away from natural gas.  And they were able, because of the low cost to leverage, to buy 1 million acres of development rights on land in our region for about $200 million—$200 an acre of development rights.  They then formed a royalty trust and took approximately 65,000 of those acres from which they had borrowed the $200 million, went on an international tour and raised money from sovereign wealth funds for rights to this royalty unit, and then closed their deal here in the past few weeks for rights on 65,000 of the 1 million acres for $238 million.  So leverage is doing well in our part of the country:  low cost of borrowing, easy money, lots of liquidity sloshing around, here we go.  So I bring that up as a caution to this Committee. On the national level, I agree—information we have received since the last meeting indicates that the economy recovery continues and that our labor markets are improving modestly but steadily.  Household spending and business investment in equipment and software both continue to expand, while at the same time improving their balance sheets, which is good, from my point of view.  Since the last meeting, we have also seen that inflation expectations have remained, as we say, contained, except that what we are seeing for energy, food, and now a broader basket of goods  indicates confidence may be waning in that particular sector.  One thing on unemployment—if you break it out, we are seeing pretty significant improvements in employment for college graduates.  We are seeing less in terms of high school and non–high school; I’m not sure monetary policy can solve that, and I think we should be mindful of that. One other thing that I worry about is that while we talk about our very accommodative policy as necessary, we also see these energy and commodity costs rising and moving forward.  And, yes, they may transitory, but I’m afraid that when you have wages that are not rising, real income is falling, and high prices in that environment actually kill demand because incomes can’t keep up.  And the effect on that middle income group that we are so concerned about supporting is going to be negative, not positive.  So we may not see the inflationary pressures three and four years from now, but that may be because we have a new economic crisis built around the fact that we put all of this liquidity into the system, built these commodities up, and when the prices adjust and come down, it will be because we have starved the middle class in terms of real-wage increases. I think we need to be careful about how long we leave this very accommodative monetary policy in place, because we are creating imbalances.  They are going to correct.  And that, of course, will fall most heavily on those with middle and lower incomes.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In the passage, there is contention and disagreement. One example of this is when the speaker expresses concern about the high energy and commodity costs and how they may negatively affect middle-income groups. This is in contrast to the previous statement that inflation expectations are contained. The speaker is cautioning against maintaining the accommodative monetary policy for too long, while acknowledging the positive aspects of the economy recovery.


Passage number 120.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any indication of contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude.


Passage number 121.
 MR. EVANS.  Mr. Chairman, can I say something. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you want a rebuttal.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking the chairman if they would like a rebuttal.


Passage number 122.
 MR. EVANS.  No—the reason I mentioned slack is that there’s not an output gap in that model.  I mean, slack is when you put it into the Woodford-type of style, and you talk about the different type of market equilibrium.  We can construct a slack variable; that’s a concept that we did for the inflation dynamics.  But per se, marginal cost is really the relevant thing.  So you have to work pretty hard to come up with a concept that looks like a Woodford slack variable.  But the object that you would work on to get at what you are talking about—which is a valid experiment, I’m not denying that—would be to pump different shocks in there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Evans simply explains the concept of slack and the relevance of marginal cost.


Passage number 123.
 MR. LACKER.  What you say is exactly true.  The inflation dynamics run off marginal cost.  There is this link that one can draw in many models, a one-to-one relationship between the level of marginal cost and the level of the variable that seems to accord with the notions of slack.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply explains a relationship between inflation dynamics and marginal cost.


Passage number 124.
 MR. EVANS.  I was trying to skip that additional assumption, which often is at the heart of what people are objecting to, which is, it’s not observable.  But we can talk about this more.  I understand that we’re going to have some discussions about DSGE models at upcoming meetings as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

In this passage, Mr. Evans is acknowledging the potential disagreement or differing opinions about DSGE models, but there is no direct contention or disagreement present. He mentions that they will have discussions about DSGE models in upcoming meetings, indicating an opportunity for exchange and clarification rather than an argument.


Passage number 125.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay, great. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response "Okay, great" indicates agreement or acceptance of the previous statement or request.


Passage number 126.
 MR. FISHER.  I want to just address one issue the Governor raised— and I admire the way you spent Easter weekend.  I think if you look at the transcripts thoroughly, what you’ll see is that what we were hearing from business reporters, to which I am a devotee, was a significant buildup in price pressures leading up to August 2008, and they were right.  They did not anticipate the collapse in demand that occurred as a result of the financial crisis, and that’s when you began to see a reversal in expectations.  I think we have to be very careful to dismiss microeconomic decisionmakers.  They should supplement and complement the data.  Data are history.  What we’re trying to get a sense of is things at the margin.  I always preface my comments by saying “for what it is worth,” and for what it is worth, I think it is valuable to listen to those who actually allocate resources, decide who to hire, and price products.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher is expressing his opinion and suggesting that listening to business reporters and microeconomic decision-makers can provide valuable insights.


Passage number 127.
 MR. TARULLO.  I anticipated that [laughter], which is why I went back to 2005, because we didn’t have a financial crisis following 2005, and there were many of the same kinds of expectations.  And I guess, Richard, what I’d say is that the 2008 transcripts are probably more a lesson in the need to look at what else is going on.  I have to say, I was taken by the relative downplaying of financial risks and the relative playing up of inflationary risks in the middle part of 2008. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Tarullo is providing his perspective on the 2008 financial crisis and expressing his surprise at the downplaying of financial risks and focus on inflationary risks during that time. President Kocherlakota's response is not mentioned in the passage, so there is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 128.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think these observations about the labor market are spot on.  I will say, I’ve spent some time looking at these data too, and I think it’s very confusing.  One thing I would point to—and I think I mentioned this last time—is looking at these broader measures of unemployment and thinking about the marginally attached, et cetera, I would have thought that if we were seeing a group of people leaving the labor force who were about to pop back in, you would have seen more of an increase in the group of marginally attached workers than we’ve seen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker agrees with the observations about the labor market and expresses confusion over the data. He also mentions a point he made previously without indicating any disagreement with others.


Passage number 129.
 MR. TARULLO.  I would think that there should be something to that as well, Narayana.  And it is frustrating to use the published BLS data because they simply aren’t as granular as would be useful to us.  But that’s why one of Alan’s hypotheses is particularly interesting, which is that people are going into training or, in some cases, going into child care for their own kids for some specified period of time. MS. YELLEN.  I just wanted to ask the staff—isn’t it the case that the broader measures of unemployment have declined less than the official measure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are discussing the limitations of published data and expressing interest in a particular hypothesis.


Passage number 130.
 MR. WASCHER.  Right.  From that standpoint, people who want a job but have dropped out of the labor force and still indicate that they want a job might have accounted for 0.2 percentage point of the decline in the unemployment rate over the past year.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents information without any disagreement or contention. It simply states a potential explanation for a decline in the unemployment rate.


Passage number 131.
 MR. WILCOX.  Yes.  The advanced report on durables was received this morning.  We obviously haven’t had a chance to look at it carefully, but we were looking for a strong report.  At first blush, it looks like we got one, and our preliminary take is that it should leave our projection about unchanged for the first quarter. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any questions.  [No response]  All right.  Then we’re ready to go to our monetary policy go-round, and I’ll call on Bill English to start us off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Wilcox is simply providing an update and stating his initial opinion on the report.


Passage number 132.
 MR. EVANS.  Maybe I shouldn’t have been surprised.  Maybe I should have studied this a little more carefully, but in alternative B, there’s new language relative to what was put in the Tealbook; in paragraph 2:  “Other commodities have pushed up inflation in recent months.”  I noticed in your analysis you referred to it as headline inflation.  It seems like a noticeable change in our assessment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing surprise and acknowledging that they should have studied the situation more carefully. They are noting a change in language and expressing their observation regarding the assessment. However, there is no clear disagreement or argument presented.


Passage number 133.
 MR. LACKER.  Which part.  Paragraph 2.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in paragraph 2 of the passage. It appears to be providing information or elaborating on a specific point.


Passage number 134.
 MR. EVANS.  Paragraph 2.  We say, “measures of underlying inflation continue to be somewhat low” and then we say that increases in energy prices have pushed up inflation in recent months.  Then we’re going to say “and a decline in inflation to rates consistent with” our mandate.  So we’re now talking about inflation being too high relative to our mandate, whereas we’ve had an extended discussion about inflation being low relative to our mandate.  It seems it needs some modifier like “headline inflation” or “near-term inflation” or something.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply pointing out that there seems to be a contradiction or inconsistency in the statements about inflation, as it is described as both low and high relative to the mandate at different points in the discussion. The speaker suggests using a modifier to clarify the specific type of inflation being referred to.


Passage number 135.
 MR. LACKER.  Wouldn’t “inflation” without a modifier be presumed to refer to headline, and a modifier be presumed to be required to refer to something else, like core or underlying or forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and seeking clarification about the use of a modifier in relation to the term "inflation."


Passage number 136.
 MR. EVANS.  Inflation is a general rise in all prices, and we’re pointing to a relative price increase as moving inflation.  So I think it’s a very subtle point. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think we’re anticipating the discussion.  The origin of this change was actually President Lacker’s memo, which was circulated.  And yes, again, “inflation” is intended here as headline inflation, as distinguished from underlying, and President Lacker’s memo made the point that, instead of talking about the general term in the context of price stability, we could talk about the desire to have overall inflation come back down to what we think is the appropriate level.  But this is obviously open to discussion in the go-round.  So why don’t we just do it in that context.   Any other questions for Bill.  [No response]  All right.  If not, President Williams, you’re first.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mostly providing background information and discussing a specific point of view.


Passage number 137.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I favor alternative B.  Although we’re experiencing a bulge in headline inflation—I guess I used “headline”—underlying inflation remains low, and our forecast is that overall inflation will fall well below desired levels next year, and I expect significant resource utilization gaps to continue for quite some time.  Therefore, the current very accommodative stance in monetary policy remains entirely appropriate. In terms of the wording in the statement, I actually like the changes that were made over the weekend and in the Monday draft.  I think it is important to recognize that inflation is above desired levels currently and explain that we expect that to come down.  I would also maintain the description of longer-term inflation expectations as “stable” rather than “generally stable.”  I think this is an important point, as Bill mentioned.  Both survey and market-based measures are within the ranges that have prevailed over the past decade, and I think we should be careful not to change the language on something important like this based on what has proven at times to be volatile data.  We see that in the Michigan survey; it popped up, and then it has come back down.  We’ve also seen that in the breakeven inflation.  So I definitely would keep the word “stable.”  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker expresses their favor for alternative B and explains their reasoning for supporting it. They also express satisfaction with the wording in the statement and provide justification for maintaining certain descriptions.


Passage number 138.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I believe there are reasonably strong arguments for choosing alternative C from a certain point of view and not providing further stimulus at this time.  The recovery seems well established, and price stability often requires preemption, especially at this time of the business cycle.  Despite those arguments, though, I can support alternative B.  We’ve encountered enough speed bumps in this recovery to make cutting back on stimulus perhaps less urgent right now.  In addition, in our discussion of exit strategies, I didn’t hear any convincing reasons to doubt that we could withdraw stimulus at a fairly rapid clip if need be, and I take it as a corollary of doing whatever it takes to provide sufficient stimulus that we stand ready to withdraw stimulus at whatever pace is required to keep inflation well contained as the expansion unfolds. Regarding language, I did, indeed, make three suggestions regarding paragraph 2(b), two of which were adopted in this draft.  The motivation was to provide, similar to President Kocherlakota’s suggestion last time, more connection to real life in our description of inflation.  It just seemed to me “currently putting upward pressure on inflation” was more consistent with an overall inflation rate that hadn’t risen yet and was threatening to, and yet we’d had so many months of inflation well above what we want that it was worth acknowledging to the public that we understand that inflation is, indeed, too high right now, and why. And about relative price changes, President Evans, I understand that when oil prices go up much more rapidly than other prices, it’s a relative price change, but if it brings the average up, then it’s inflation as well, and you can’t deny that.  I mean, if there aren’t offsetting declines in other prices that keep the average constant, one is equally entitled to call it an increase in overall inflation as well. I also was concerned about this language about underlying inflation.  I think it’s widely interpreted as a code word for core inflation, and I had two concerns about sentence 2.  One of the main ones is that rather than relying on the notion of overall inflation converging to what we think of as underlying inflation over time, why not communicate that we think the rise in inflation is transitory; why not come out and say, “We expect inflation to decline soon”.  It struck me as more clear to say it that way.  The other thing is that sentence 2 is one of the five places we refer to the mandate in this statement, and we say underlying inflation is low relative to what the Committee judges—I’m not sure we’ve ever spelled out underlying inflation and made clear that it’s our forecast and not core.  My concern with sentence 2 is that it’s open to misinterpretation that our interpretation of the mandate has to do with core rather than overall inflation.  Evidently there were countervailing concerns about sentence 2.  I’m anxious to hear what they were. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is presenting their own thoughts and opinions but does not criticize or refute any other viewpoints.


Passage number 139.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  Given the weakness in spending over this quarter, there remains significant uncertainty about the strength of the recovery.  Furthermore, by the end of 2013, I expect unemployment to be too high and inflation to be too low, even assuming completion of the Treasury securities purchase program and keeping the federal funds rate at the zero lower bound longer than in the Tealbook. I continue to see many downside risks to the outlook.  Problems in Europe, fiscal austerity measures, tightening in emerging markets, and weakness in the first quarter in consumption, local government spending, and housing could spill over into future quarters.  Any one of these factors could exert enough drag on future growth to put my forecast at serious risk. Given the low inflation rate, we have plenty of room to encourage faster growth in the economy.  I hope the economy is strong enough that we can begin removing accommodation by allowing redemptions in the late fall, but that depends on receiving stronger data than we have seen so far this year. In terms of language, I share President Evans’s concern—I actually like the previous language in that sentence better. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing support for alternative B and outlining their concerns about the current state of the economy and the risks it faces.


Passage number 140.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  I’m not totally happy with paragraph 2 as written.  I think it’s an attempt to be what the younger folks might call a mash-up between President Lacker’s version and the original.  At the risk of confusing things still more, let me make a suggestion, which would be to drop the last part that’s highlighted in red—the “and a decline in inflation to rates consistent with the Federal Reserve’s mandate”—and replace it with “in a context of price stability.” I think what’s confusing about the paragraph right now is, we talk about underlying inflation being low, then inflation goes up to being high, and then we’re talking about what we want it to come down to be.  I find the paragraph confusing when I read it.  I think my suggestion may be more helpful, but maybe others will have ideas about how to address this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Kocherlakota, is expressing his support for alternative B and offering a suggestion to improve the wording of a paragraph.


Passage number 141.
 MR. TARULLO.  Narayana, you’d keep Jeff’s first change and revert to the original language for the second.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is simply discussing a decision or preference regarding language changes. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 142.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That is correct, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota is simply confirming the correctness of the statement made.


Passage number 143.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply indicates that Mr. Lacker is addressing the chairman.


Passage number 144.
 MR. LACKER.  On the seesaw pattern of referring to low inflation and high inflation—my suggestion would have eliminated references to inflation in sentence 2, which would eliminate the up-down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show contention or disagreement. It is a simple suggestion made by Mr. Lacker to eliminate references to inflation.


Passage number 145.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I remember that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I don’t want to interject, but it may help a little bit to know that in my remarks to the media later today, I’m going to be focusing very much on the projections, including the near-term projections vis-à-vis the longer-term objectives of the Committee, so I think there will be more opportunity to explain this particular configuration than would otherwise be the case.  That’s a central goal of my presentation.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. MR. Kocherlakota is simply stating that he will be focusing on projections in his remarks to the media later and that it will provide an opportunity to explain the configuration. President Hoenig does not provide any opposition or disagreement.


Passage number 146.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I’m sorry, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states someone's name and title.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 147.
   MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  As I think about the evolution of future policy, I continue to focus my attention on core inflation.  Core inflation was under 1 percent over the course of 2010. Our estimates in Minneapolis are that the output gap was around minus 4 percent at the end of 2010, and given these conditions, as you highlighted, Mr. Chairman, it’s appropriate for monetary policy to be highly accommodative, and it is.  The Board of Governors’ staff estimates suggest that the LSAPs are generating enough stimulus so as to be roughly equivalent to a fed funds rate of minus 2½ percentage points.  I guess there’s some range between minus 2 and minus 2½, but I’ll stick to the rough equivalence. Now, some observers have suggested that this level of stimulus should remain in place as long as inflation expectations remain stable, but such an approach is inconsistent with the kind of rules we have in the Tealbook, and they’re inconsistent for a good reason.  If we waited until inflation expectations move, we’d actually probably have to impose much bigger employment costs on the economy to try to get them back to where we want them to be.  So it’s, I think, a better policy to adjust our level of accommodation as the economy moves towards the Fed’s targets.  The staff now forecasts that core PCE inflation will be 1.4 percent in 2011.  My own forecast is slightly higher, and these kinds of increases in core PCE inflation would argue for a reduction in accommodation. At the same time, unemployment will be at least 1 percentage point lower at the end of 2011 than in November 2010.  This change, too, argues for a reduction in accommodation—and I think Governor Tarullo made some good points yesterday—assuming, of course, that the natural rate of unemployment did not fall by as much over the same time frame. Mr. Chairman, I found your comments on my memo to be very helpful yesterday.  In particular, I have to say that I had really underappreciated the notion that accommodation is being removed as we move closer to a date when our holdings of longer-term securities return to a more normal level.  I think this idea is a very important one and a very intuitive one. If I’m sitting there as a member of the public thinking the Fed is going to hold onto their long-term securities for 30 years, and six months pass, well, not much accommodation is being removed by that.  But if I’m thinking it’s going to be more like three years that the Fed is holding onto those securities, when six months pass, then there’s a fair amount of accommodation being removed.  This really points to the need to have some strong communication about what our expectations are for the date of eventual balance sheet normalization when our holdings in long-term securities return to something consistent with what we think of as being normal. There’s a variety of ways we could do that communication.  We could do it during the press conferences.  I heard, and I don’t want to overstate this, a fair amount of agreement among members of the Committee that we were planning to get back to something like a normal balance sheet over a five- to six-year time frame.  But another way to do it would be to add a projection.  We offer our projections of longer-run inflation; we could offer a projection of a date that we expect balance sheet normalization to take place.  Right now, though, the communication is proceeding in a rather informal way.  I think our main communication is President Williams’s working paper, and that’s probably not the best way for us to communicate these things, with all due respect.  [Laughter]  But I do continue to anticipate that in the fall the Committee will need to respond to the changes in economic conditions by taking the first steps toward raising the fed funds rate.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  There have been several good suggestions about how we might change the projections, and I’m sure the Subcommittee will be eager to dig into those. MS. YELLEN.  Will do. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yet another possible suggestion, of course, is to project the funds rate itself.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker suggests that the current level of accommodation should be reduced as inflation and unemployment improve, while others have suggested that the level of stimulus should remain in place as long as inflation expectations remain stable.


Passage number 148.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Oh, that is a good suggestion. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Kocherlakota and President Hoenig seem to agree on the suggestion mentioned.


Passage number 149.
 MR. HOENIG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I prefer alternative C.  Economic growth, as I’ve said many times, will most likely continue to be moderate, as consumers and businesses and financial institutions balance their increasing spending motives with the need to deleverage, which is in process and has to take place.  This process will take time, and maintaining a zero policy rate, I think, invites future imbalances that will undermine longer-term growth, which is our mandate.  Inflation is increasing.  Energy and food inflation have been especially notable, obviously.  The broader inflation measures are moving higher as well.  I am concerned that maintaining our highly accommodative policy stance amid a recovering economy, even though modest, and rising underlying inflation puts us behind the curve and risks a repeat of the policy mistakes of the ’70s and the 2000s.  We are just inviting trouble by staying too low too long. To rebalance the risks to the outlook, we need to rebalance our monetary policy, and I would start modestly, by taking the “extended period” language out.  And I’d also at least consider seriously stopping our investments at the $450 billion number.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: There is no explicit contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Hoenig, is expressing his personal preference for alternative C and his concerns about maintaining a zero policy rate. He is not disagreeing with anyone else's position or arguing against a specific viewpoint.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 150.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Our second round of LSAPs is nearing its scheduled conclusion in June.  I was not in favor of this policy when it was implemented in November, but I see little to be gained at this point of ending it early.  We are almost done. As we discussed last time, I thought it important that our April statement signal that LSAPs will end in June, and alternative B, paragraph 3, does that.  In general, I do prefer the language in alternative C, but like President Lacker, I can live with something closer to B.  However, I would like the statement to go somewhat further in preparing the public for exit and giving the Committee more flexibility, so that it can act sooner rather than later, if necessary.  I think this is a good time to begin changing the language.  Because the Chairman is having a press briefing after this meeting and the next meeting, it gives us opportunities to make more-extensive language changes in the statement than we might feel comfortable doing otherwise.  The Chairman will be able to explain what we mean by our changes rather than letting the public divine what we meant. First, I think we should take the opportunity when the LSAPs end in June to also stop reinvestments of MBS.  We should signal this in the statement by saying the Committee will complete $600 billion of longer-term Treasury purchases by the end of the quarter, and at that time intends to end the policy of reinvesting principal payments from securities.  The market has reacted quite benignly to the Treasury sales of MBS.  I don’t anticipate such an adverse reaction to our announcement that investments will end, and it will help prepare the public for our eventual exit.  I think paragraph 4 is becoming more problematic, given the inflation and inflation expectation numbers.  Are inflation trends really subdued.  Are inflation expectations really stable.  I think we should consider adjusting the language, if not today, then in June.  Is “extended period” consistent with potentially raising the funds rate, as President Kocherlakota suggested, by year-end. Even the Tealbook puts a nonnegligible chance of raising rates this year, although the point forecast suggests a longer period before liftoff.  We don’t want to mislead the public, but paragraph 4, I’m afraid, might do that.  Instead, I think we could say, “The Committee will maintain the target rate of the federal funds rate from 0 to ¼ percent today, and based on its outlook for the economy and inflation, anticipates that it will remain low for some time to come.”  This works, because paragraph 2 discusses our outlook for inflation—the fact that we expect the effects of higher energy and commodity prices to have transitory effects on general inflation.  And paragraph 1 explains that labor market conditions are improving.  Because we are releasing new forecasts at the press briefing, changing the language to refer to projections seems sensible. I would also note that among the various policy rules in the Tealbook, the so-called growth rate or first-difference rules suggest that the funds rate should be about 50 basis points this quarter and 90 basis points by the third quarter.  Of course, different rules give different guidance, and I have argued before why I like something more like the first-difference rule, in part because of measurement problems, but I won’t repeat those arguments today. A couple of wording choices we talked about last time could be implemented today and explained during the press conference.  I would like us to consider changing paragraph 2 so that it refers to—and I raised this point last time—“employment” or “unemployment” rather than the “unemployment rate.”  Our mandate is in terms of maximum employment, not the unemployment rate.  Labor force participation rates are a variable we have even less control over than we do employment.  By emphasizing the unemployment rate, we risk giving the idea that we won’t begin exiting until the unemployment rate is back down to the natural rate.  But this is misleading.  I believe we will need to act before the unemployment rate gets back down to a normal level. I think alternative C’s characterization of where the economy is relative to our dual mandate—namely, that employment and inflation have moved somewhat closer to the levels that the Committee judges is mandate consistent—rings truer than paragraph 2 in alternative B, which seems to brush aside the recent increases in inflation and inflation forecasts.  That is why I generally prefer alternative C. We also should consider clarifying what we mean by underlying inflation.  As President Lacker was suggesting, we had this conversation last time as well.  I think we have some concept of inflation over the medium run, not just core inflation in mind.  So why don’t we say that, rather than referring to underlying inflation. I’m also worried that claiming expectations remain stable may not be entirely credible.  Indeed, some have argued that, in fact, expectations of inflation have risen, reflecting the abating concerns about deflation.  Five-year, five-year TIPS have risen considerably since last fall, and so to say that inflation expectations are stable may be a little bit awkward.  In fact, if we recall, we wanted to get them up somewhat since last fall. So I would suggest that the last sentence of paragraph 1 reads something like as follows:  “Inflation has picked up in recent months, but longer-term inflation expectations remain within historical norms, and indicators of inflation over the medium term are subdued.”  I think that language would fit well with the Chairman’s emphasis on our forecast in his press conference, and he could get away from using underlying inflation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser disagrees with the language in paragraph 4 and suggests changing it to better reflect the possibility of raising interest rates sooner than expected. He also suggests changing the language in paragraph 2 to focus on employment rather than the unemployment rate. Additionally, he suggests clarifying the meaning of "underlying inflation" and expressing concern about the credibility of claims that inflation expectations remain stable.


Passage number 151.
 MR. TARULLO.  Can you read that again, Charlie.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply asking someone to repeat a statement.


Passage number 152.
 MR. PLOSSER.  “Inflation has picked up in recent months, but longer-term inflation expectations remain within historical norms, and indicators of inflation over the medium run are subdued.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply presents two pieces of information: inflation has picked up in recent months, but longer-term inflation expectations remain within historical norms.


Passage number 153.
” MR. TARULLO.  Thanks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing gratitude.


Passage number 154.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I think communication and transparency are very important policy tools at this point.  This will be especially true as we choreograph our exit of this period of accommodation.  The changes in language that I am suggesting are some of those I believe that we might need to implement in the next couple of meetings to prepare the public for the start of an eventual exit.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And that indicators of what remain subdued, at the end.  Sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing the importance of communication and transparency as policy tools and suggesting changes in language to prepare the public for the eventual exit from the accommodative period. The passage does not present any conflicting views or arguments.


Passage number 155.
 MR. PLOSSER.  “Indicators of inflation over the medium run remain subdued.”  As opposed to “underlying inflation,” and that would play into the forecast language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a statement made by MR. PLOSSER that indicates indicators of inflation over the medium run remain subdued, and it mentions the concept of "underlying inflation" being relevant to the forecast language. There is no conflicting viewpoint or argument presented.


Passage number 156.
 MR. LACKER.  Which medium run, past or the future—going which way.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple question asking about the direction of a particular time frame.


Passage number 157.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I’m thinking future.  Or you could say, “forecast of inflation over the medium run.”  That’s why this language “underlying inflation” is confusing, because it’s interpreted as core.  What you are really talking about is your predictions of where inflation is going. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s fair.  We have a lot of work to do, I think.  Your particular suggestion is very interesting, but it would also require work in the second paragraph, too.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

While Mr. Plosser expresses some confusion and suggests that there is work to be done, there is no clear indication of contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 158.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes, because “underlying” shows up there as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a brief exchange between two individuals where one person agrees with the other's statement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 159.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  I support the announced $600 billion of additional asset purchases.  I support maintaining the “extended period” language.  I broadly agree with the Tealbook’s policy assumption, basically, which is a fairly extended accommodation.  In making this recommendation, I continue to focus on our dual-mandate goals for the economy.  Whether you look at real GDP, nominal GDP, or employment, we continue to be far below levels that I associate with a well-functioning economy related to pre-recession levels.  I think that we are still pretty far below that. Because President Plosser keeps mentioning the unemployment rate in the context of the statement, I always remember what Chairman Greenspan and Don Kohn used to say:  When you talk about unemployment, the measures are pretty variable; they move around month to month in ways that require a lot of understanding.  The labor force also moves around a lot.  But something about taking the ratio of those cleans this out, and the unemployment rate is a fairly stable measure.  It doesn’t move around very much.  I think you are asking for more explaining if you move away from that the unemployment rate; I’m not bothered by the unemployment rate at all. In terms of inflation, I would just like to make a side comment for the record, because President Fisher yesterday mentioned again this language like, “Our policies have been monetizing the debt.”  And I just want to be very clear on the record that I disagree completely with that characterization.  I think that monetizing the debt is when you permanently replace debt with money.  Our discussion yesterday was all about the fact how that is not going to be a permanent replacement, and so I just think that is a mischaracterization of our policies. Now, for inflation.  I guess I didn’t study the new language carefully enough over the weekend, but I do have some sympathies to this idea that inflation has been higher, and we do need to acknowledge that.  One thing I have learned from going out and talking to the public is that we need to acknowledge what they, and in fact, we are all experiencing.  So I’m sympathetic to that.  But the current paragraph 2 has got this, you know—down, up, underlying inflation, somewhat low, and then we refer to commodity prices as having pushed up “inflation.”  I just think that in talking about this—even as I heard Bill English describe this, he sort of slipped in “headline inflation” when he mentioned that—it needs a modifier.  As it stands, it has the opportunity to rebrand what we mean when we talk about inflation if we don’t have that modifier.  Inflation is a general rise in all prices, and I don’t think we’ve got that uniformity in price increases at the moment.  And, our forecast that you are going to talk about, Mr. Chairman, shows the central tendencies up in 2011, but in 2012, and then rising in 2013.  So it is not just that we are going to decline to rates consistent, but we’re going to go down, and then we are going to go up, and we’re below that.  I’m sympathetic to trying to get this right.  I would, in fact, be willing to talk about the entire path.  And while you can do that during your press conference, this is new territory, and the statement will be out there.  I am nervous about that.  I don’t believe medium-term inflation is too high.  I think we are in fact below the mandate.  I think this is a very notable change in language, and so I want to be very careful on that.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Evans, expresses support for alternative B and certain policy decisions, but also expresses disagreement with President Fisher's characterization of the Fed's policies as "monetizing the debt" and raises concerns about the language used to discuss inflation in the statement.


Passage number 160.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker addresses the chairman respectfully as "Mr. Chairman" and also identifies themselves as "President Bullard".


Passage number 161.
 MR. BULLARD.  I just have one question for President Evans on monetizing the debt.  Some of the options that we look at actually do talk about just leaving the balance sheet larger and operating under a different operating system.  So if we did that, would you consider that monetizing the debt, since that would be a permanent increase in the size of the balance sheet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, is asking a question to President Evans about monetizing the debt, and there is no indication of any disagreement or conflicting views.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 162.
 MR. EVANS.  Well, I appreciate that, and I think one characterization is this permanent placement.  But, overall, I think inflation is really low, and so the fact that we move to a different operating procedure where maybe we contemplate a floor where more of it would be permanent—I mean, this is not a partnership with the Treasury; this is not Zimbabwe or anything like that or hyperinflation, period.  And to even talk about monetizing the debt—I mean, President Fisher has used words like “dangerous” out in the public, and I think this is not helpful.  So, yes, I would disagree with that characterization.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Evans, disagrees with the characterization that the new operating procedure involving a floor for permanent placement is akin to hyperinflation or monetizing the debt. He argues that inflation is low and that such comparisons are not helpful.


Passage number 163.
 MR. FISHER.  Is it all right if President Fisher makes a comment.  I am delighted to hear you say it was a temporary phenomenon.  I am especially delighted to hear you make it clear that this is not what we’re going to do.  And I think we have 100 percent agreement at the table.  Thank you for clarifying that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, expresses his delight and agreement with what was said by someone else at the table.


Passage number 164.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman—I don’t think we have 100 percent agreement, President Fisher, because you have been saying publicly that we have monetized the debt.  And I don’t think that that was either the intention or the action of this Committee.  So I wonder if you agree with the other part of President Evans’s statement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is disagreement in the passage between Mr. Tarullo and President Fisher regarding whether or not the Committee has monetized the debt. Mr. Tarullo disagrees with President Fisher's statement that the Committee has monetized the debt.


Passage number 165.
 MR. FISHER.  I believe we temporarily did so.  I believe the numbers are there.  That’s my belief.  The beauty of this Committee is we have a diversity of views.  I don’t want to waste our time on this discussion, Mr. Chairman.  I think we should get back to addressing the alternatives. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Lacker, you’ve got a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's belief and preference to move on to discussing alternatives.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 166.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  I heard you (President Evans) say something about inflation that made me wonder if we understand inflation in the same way.  You said it’s not inflation if it’s not a broad and uniform increase in prices.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker questions President Evans' understanding of inflation by pointing out a difference in their definitions or understanding of inflation.


Passage number 167.
 MR. EVANS.  No.  I said inflation was a general increase in all prices.  I didn’t state it in the negative way that you did.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Mr. Evans clarifies his statement but does not express disagreement with the other person's perspective.


Passage number 168.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, so, relative prices change at the same time inflation goes up.  Does the change in relative prices negate there being inflation.  If half the prices go up at 40 percent and the other half don’t change, do we not have 20 percent inflation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and presenting a hypothetical scenario to clarify their understanding of inflation.


Passage number 169.
 MR. EVANS.  I just think inflation is a monetary phenomenon.  And whether or not we generate a higher increase in all prices, it comes down to the policy assumption that we have here.  Our medium-term inflation forecast is for something lower than that.  This doesn’t look like inflation to me.  Most of our models have a single price index.  We don’t even talk about uniformity of prices.  That’s just my assessment. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any specific contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of MR. Evans expressing his personal perspective on inflation and the policy assumptions surrounding it. There is no indication of any opposing views or conflicting positions.


Passage number 170.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B as well, but I should say, I support it with the understanding that paragraph 3 genuinely is communicating neutrality with respect to the potential for adjustment of holdings in one direction or another in the future. As people could tell from my remarks yesterday, I’m on the lower end of projections with respect to expectations for economic growth.  I continue to think that growth is going to be a problem.  Monetary policy is becoming trickier, and there’s no question but that the inflation concerns that a lot of people have raised are something that we are going to need to be watching carefully.  But I don’t think at this juncture, given what I heard to be most people’s expectations that these effects would be transitory, that we want to do anything like beginning to move toward the exits, which I think ending reinvestment or changing the language would surely be. With respect to paragraph 2, I found myself sympathetic both with Jeff’s suggestions for changes and with Charlie’s concerns about those changes, because I think Jeff is trying to do what Betsy suggested, regularize the use of the language, which would probably be good for us all.  But I think Charlie’s point is, given how many terms have been used at this point, it might sow more confusion than clarity to do so. So although I actually was comfortable with the two changes that are incorporated here, like Betsy, I am attracted to Narayana’s compromise, which is to say, “other commodities have pushed up inflation in recent months,” but then return to the “in a context of price stability,” and then perhaps allow the Chairman to use a little bit of his time this afternoon to begin this process of clarifying exactly what we mean as we talk about inflation. And I don’t have a strong view on “generally.”  I think, at the margin, I would omit it.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B, because the economic recovery is too halting and uneven to warrant a substantial shift now in the stance of monetary policy.  The unemployment rate has come down, but it remains high relative to other labor market indicators, which show a high number of people wanting full-time work but finding only part-time work.  Wage gains are minimal, and unit labor costs are not changing. Measures of inflation have moved up, reversing a small part of their decline since 2008.  That said, the run-up in energy prices is slowing consumer spending.  In addition, political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, and the resulting upward pressure on oil prices, have increased the likelihood of an adverse shock to real incomes and to household confidence and, to a lesser extent, business confidence, and thus to private domestic final demand. If there are further increases in oil and commodity prices, and a more-than-transitory spillover to other prices, one could imagine inflation expectations becoming unanchored.  Given these conditions and others that have been discussed, I think that the current stance of monetary policy strikes me as appropriate.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Tarullo and Ms. Raskin express support for alternative B and give reasons for their support. They also discuss potential concerns and considerations surrounding monetary policy but do not directly disagree with each other.


Passage number 171.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, I was thinking through what we heard from David Wilcox yesterday, and from the Bank presidents in particular, and the dissonance that is being reported.  My notes to myself summarized them as follows. On economic growth, like the old saw about the music of Wagner, “It’s not as bad as it sounds,” and on inflation, like gangsta rap, it’s worse than it sounds.  I think so much depends, Mr. Chairman, on, really, what you say at this press conference and your comportment, which I am very confident about. In looking at the statement, I think less attention will be paid to the statement than is normal.  Almost as much attention will be paid to you as is being paid to what Kate Middleton will wear at her wedding.  [Laughter]  And I am grateful for that distraction. On the statement, I think Mr. Evans has a very good point.  Here are the facts.  The headline PCE price index posed an annualized rate of increase of 4.9 percent in February.  That’s its fastest one-month rate of increase since June of 2009.  That makes three straight months of headline readings in excess of an annualized 3 percent rate.  I would have no problem with inserting the word “headline” between “pushed up” and “inflation.”  I think he makes a good point.  Generally speaking, I agree with Mr. Lacker’s amendments.  I’m glad that they were reflected in alternative B.  I like President Kocherlakota’s inclusion of “in the context of price stability”—it takes some of the seesaw out.  But I think the most important amendment that’s been suggested thus far was President Plosser’s, which is to conclude the first paragraph by saying, “longer-term inflation expectations remain within historical norms,” et cetera, et cetera.  I believe I heard him say, “indicating” whatever—“over the medium term” rather than the “medium run.”  But I would accept that language. Let me just make a general comment about some of the tempers that seem to have flared during this discussion.  The beauty of this Committee is that it reflects diversity.  There are academics, there are very serious scholars at the table, there are actually three former bankers at the table, and there are people with a supervision and regulation background.  I don’t think we should discourage diversities of view.  I take a chapter out of Oliver Wendell Holmes:  “Do not be bullied out of your common sense.”  And, moreover, that it is very important that we adhere to both education in the obvious as well as investigation of the obscure.  One of the great things about this Committee is we have the talent and capacity to look at things in great depth, but we also have the ability to take soundings in the field.  And, as I mentioned earlier, those soundings I wouldn’t disparage, I would use to complement and supplement what we analytically and intellectually infer from our discussions and from our models. Mr. Chairman, I think that, in addition to the statement and the suggestions that I have just made, the important thing today is really this press conference.  I think it would be prudent for you to make a firm statement in your conference as to our resolve in containing inflation.  I thought your summary, as you presented it at the beginning of this discussion, was spot on.  I was tempted to embrace alternative C and to dissent at this meeting; I will not do so.  I would ask that you do, indeed, focus and reassure the markets about our intent to contain inflation and seek price stability, because there are some doubts out there, whether they are deserved or not.  And I would conclude by saying that you might also consider noting during your press conference that the Committee is aware of, and is monitoring, the resurgence of some financial practices that could prove to be counterproductive.  This is a concern we haven’t discussed as a group and we don’t include in the statement, but I sense it is out there and I would like to put any notion that we are not aware of it to an end. So, in summary, I would support alternative B, with the amendments I mentioned, particularly the end of the first paragraph with President Plosser’s suggestion.  I would insert the word “headline” before “pushed up inflation,” because that, indeed, is the fact.  And I would accept Narayana’s truncation of the last sentence in paragraph 2.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with various points and suggestions made by other members of the committee.


Passage number 172.
 MR. EVANS.  I agree with your characterization, Mr. Chairman.  It’s really the last part, where it mentions a decline in inflation to rates consistent with the Federal Reserve’s mandate, that made me think differently about it.  If you drop that one along the lines of President Kocherlakota, I do not have a problem with the “pushed up inflation in recent months.”  That’s just fine. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I don’t want to complicate it further, but you could say, “gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization and to levels of inflation consistent with the Federal Reserve’s mandate,” without getting into ups and downs.  That would be another way to do it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Evans agrees with the characterization but suggests an alternative wording for a specific part of it.


Passage number 173.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think it’s easier just to keep it the way it is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  I withdraw that then.  All right.  So those are two questions.  I’m going to take a straw vote on both of these in just a minute, but does anyone want to make a further comment—let’s start with the first one, on inflation expectations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a series of statements and requests for comments.


Passage number 174.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Mr. Chairman.  Can I just make an observation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. Plosser asks for permission to make an observation.


Passage number 175.
 MR. PLOSSER.  It’s about two pieces of the language that are tied together.  One is the issue of what we mean by underlying inflation.  That was what I was trying to address.  And I understand what you’re saying.  We use it several times, so we’ve got to figure out a way around, but I think we need to work our way out of that language.  And the second is the context of price stability.  I’ve never quite understood exactly what that meant, and I think part of President Lacker’s effort was to get away from that.  I would be happy if we made a commitment for the staff, as we move through the next set of languages, to try to clean up both of those concepts in a way that we’re consistent through this, which I think was what your earlier suggestion was.  I think that’s going to be important going forward for us. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Well, again, certainly the staff, Bill and others, hear that.  Point taken.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own understanding and confusion about certain language and concepts, and is suggesting that they work to clarify and clean up these concepts in the future. The response from the staff indicates that they have understood and acknowledged the speaker's point.


Passage number 176.
 MR. LACKER.  If I could just add to that.  Betsy is right and you’re right, I think, that we need to take a systematic look at the language that we use to communicate about inflation.  I don’t think we’re far apart at all on the facts.  I think we all understand it.  It’s choosing the language to communicate what there is a consensus about. I think, broad brush:  The recovery is continuing, we know inflation is high, and it’s going to come down.  Those are the three things we want to communicate with the statement, and to go back to the context of price stability is to rely on people comparing context of price stability and high current inflation and realizing, oh, they’re saying it’s going to come down.  I mean, to me, it’s an oblique and, to my mind, unnecessarily indirect way of stating, “We expect inflation to come down.”  So I just wanted to get that point in. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think that’s a perfectly viable option, as long as we put in “headline.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply adding to the previous points made and suggesting a different way of communicating about inflation.


Passage number 177.
” MR. LACKER.  Yes, I’m not against putting in “headline.”  I mean, I think over time we’re going to want to drop that.  We could use “overall” just as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, “overall” would actually be even better, I think.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is expressing agreement and suggesting an alternative word choice for "headline."


Passage number 178.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Earlier in that paragraph we do say that we expect these effects to be transitory, so we are setting up the idea of why we think that we’re going back to price stability.  If we hadn’t mentioned the transitory nature, I would be more in agreement with you, but we do mention it.  So that, I think, sets up what follows. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, that’s true.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not display contention or disagreement. It simply provides an explanation of why the speaker believes the effects mentioned earlier will be temporary.


Passage number 179.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I’ll say a couple things.  First, I think references to “headline” should be avoided.  I think in the systematic overview of language that will take place in the next six weeks we will regret using that language.  The use of the term price stability is to connote two things at once, and perhaps it’s too oblique to do that.  One is that inflation will decline from its current high levels, but it’s also to say that underlying inflation will return from its current low levels to 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing the speaker's opinion about the use of certain terms and their potential drawbacks.


Passage number 180.
 MR. LACKER.  What’s “underlying inflation,” in this context.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Lacker is asking a question to seek clarification and understanding. There is no contention or disagreement mentioned.


Passage number 181.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Cannot answer the question without the passage.


Passage number 182.
  I think of “underlying inflation” as being our best possible forecast— MR. LACKER.  Forecast is going to return to—.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is explaining their opinion on how they think of "underlying inflation" as the best possible forecast.


Passage number 183.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Our actual forecast is for inflation to do this—to go up, and to come down below, and then to reach target from below.  I think it’s a very subtle and artistic forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any argument or disagreement. It simply states a forecast made by Mr. Kocherlakota.


Passage number 184.
  [Laughter] MR. LACKER.  It doesn’t say what our forecast is going to do, what we expect our forecast to do, which is different than what we forecast inflation to do. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  Okay.  President Lacker, would you be okay for this meeting to restore the ambiguity of “in a context of price stability.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The participants are discussing the language and clarity of a statement, but there is no disagreement or conflict between them.


Passage number 185.
” MR. LACKER.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  That’s with the understanding that this is not a satisfactory situation.  I think President Kocherlakota’s point about starting to throw in “headline,” adding yet another term, is going to be an issue.  So I’m perfectly okay with “pushed up inflation in recent months” because I think that’s accurate, if that’s okay with everybody. All right.  Let’s restore the last sentence of alternative B, paragraph 2, and keep the change “have pushed up inflation,” not “headline inflation”—“have pushed up inflation in recent months.” So then our remaining question is about inflation expectations.  Let me just see first if there’s a plurality to leave it where it is, and if there isn’t—let’s vote the following way.  Change or no change, and then if there’s a change, we’ll figure out which change is better.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing possible changes to the wording of a statement and seeking consensus from the group.


Passage number 186.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Can I just say one thought that just occurred to me. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 187.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Rather than “recent historical norms,” you could say, “inflation expectations remain at acceptable levels.”  That doesn’t address the volatility of them necessarily.  But maybe that connotes too much. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s a little anxiety producing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser is simply suggesting an alternative phrase and expressing some doubt or concern about it.


Passage number 188.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes, I withdraw that.  I’m sorry. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  In the interest of coffee, I’m now going to ask how many people would like to just leave the characterization of inflation expectations as “remained stable,” and how many would like to consider an alternative.  How many would like to say “remained stable”.  [Show of hands] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Well, ten is a majority, so we’ll just keep that language.  Any other comments or questions.  [No response] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Again, I thank you for both your input and your willingness to work flexibly with the Committee.  We’re ready for a vote.  Debbie. MS. DANKER.  This is on alternative B, the statement in the handout, as well as the directive.  In the handout, it is as written in the handout.  The “generally” is struck, and the final sentence of paragraph 2 reads, “The Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability.”  Chairman Bernanke.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple discussion and decision-making process.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 189.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Do you want “continues to” to go back in there so that the sentence is staying the same. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Shouldn’t we make the last sentence identical to the previous statement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. English and another person are discussing whether to include the phrase "continues to" in the sentence. Mr. English suggests making the last sentence identical to the previous statement, but it implies that the other person disagrees with this suggestion.


