Passage number 1.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Simon, in terms of chart 19, I’m a little puzzled by what we’re trying to get at through that question.  If the respondents have a lot of heterogeneity in beliefs about what the course of the economy is going to be, that should translate into their having differences of opinion about how big our balance sheet is going to grow as well, given the way that we stated our policy.  So how are you thinking about taking account of those differences.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota is expressing confusion about the purpose of chart 19 and seeking clarification from Simon.


Passage number 2.
 MR. POTTER. We have the measure for disagreement in their point forecasts, the darker blue line, and that captures different views about the FOMC’s reaction function and how the economy might evolve.  And then the lighter blue, which you only have two recent observations on because we only just started to ask this question, captures each responding dealer’s uncertainty around that point estimate and gives the average of that uncertainty. It’s trying to separate out disagreement about how things might evolve in point expectations from uncertainty in terms of the average level of uncertainty that dealers have.  If we had a longer history of the balance sheet question, we could see whether this was relatively high or low for the balance sheet. What I wanted to make clear is that this number for what the federal funds rate would be 12 months ahead is relatively high compared with the earlier history, particularly if you look at 2007, 2008—quite turbulent times.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage is presenting information and describing the different measures of disagreement and uncertainty in the data. There is no indication of any disagreement or conflicting viewpoints among the speakers.


Passage number 3.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Okay, I think I understood you.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement evident in the passage. The speaker simply thanks Mr. Kocherlakota for his understanding.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 4.
 MR. POTTER.  There’s a MarketSOURCE piece that was posted yesterday that goes into more detail. It was the only way we were able to try to capture some of the uncertainty about what the open-ended purchases actually mean rather than just focusing on the point forecast, which I think is somewhat misleading as the size of the program. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you.  Simon, I heard this morning in Steve Liesman’s CNBC report on the Fed Survey that close to 70 percent of those surveyed are concerned that with our continued asset purchase program, there are going to be both market disruptions and pricing issues.  And what was interesting about the survey is that it is a very sharp reversal from the September survey.  I know that in our primary dealer survey, we don’t ask questions about market disruptions, and in your comments you said that the staff does not believe that our continued asset purchase program would cause market disruptions.  But are you hearing any comments from the dealers about concerns about market disruptions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in this passage. President Pianalto raises concerns about potential market disruptions caused by the continued asset purchase program, while Mr. Potter and the staff do not believe that the program would cause disruptions.


Passage number 5.
 MR. POTTER.  We always get comments and very wide-ranging views about what we should be doing, and what the effects are. I haven’t noticed a big switch in the same way that the CNBC survey has.  It would be useful to see how precise that question is and whether there’s some follow-up.  The metrics that we have do not show, really, any strains in the markets right now.  We’re actually surprised that there haven’t been more strains, given the size of our MBS purchases, because we’ve been running somewhere between $70 billion and $80 billion per month.  After Hurricane Sandy, we had to make up for one day; we switched very quickly from in the low $3 billions per day to the high $3 billions, and we accomplished that with really great ease.  So on the MBS side, we’ve seen very little.  What we will follow is the settlements and whether we have to roll.  Part of that is the 3½ percent coupon:  Because the primary rate isbeing pushed down so much, that is becoming a coupon that you’re unlikely to produce.  That tends to result in some market-functioning issues, but that’s really a desirable side effect of the policy if we want to push down the primary rate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing their perspectives and observations.


Passage number 6.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to talk about exhibit 3, chart 17, “Expected Pace of Asset Purchases.” I thought your characterization of this was that—and I may be reading the graph wrong, so let me know—all or most of the probability was on $45 billion.  But it looks to me that more than half of the probability is actually on something less than $45 billion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 7.
 MR. POTTER. The question that we ask is about the upcoming meeting, the January meeting, the March meeting, and the one-year-ahead.  This chart is the one-year-ahead chart.  If I had shown you a chart for this meeting, I think that what you’d see is that 18 of the dealers are at $45 billion.  There are three dealers who are a little bit below $45 billion, and that might be because they have a different view of the purchase allocation.  So in 10-year equivalent space, it’s probably the same as the $45 billion.  However, this chart is the one-year-ahead, and it captures the fact that some of the dealers think the open-ended purchases will end sometime in 2013. Also, we’re seeing a tapering in here from some of the dealers.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is simply providing information about different views and perspectives among dealers.


Passage number 8.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing gratitude towards Governor Powell.


Passage number 9.
 MR. POWELL.  Simon, in reference to chart 20, do you have a story on what caused the dealers to herd into six quarters between the October survey and the December survey. It seems like there’s a real coming together around that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for Simon's opinion or analysis on the pattern shown in chart 20.


Passage number 10.
MR. POTTER. There are three ways this herding could happen:  They could fix the date at which the federal funds rate will increase and move the end of the purchases, vice versa, or move both.  If you look at those light blue lines, some of the dealers had an expectation that the funds rate would be held close to zero for a very long time.  They’ve tended to move that in closer to 2015 or 2016.  And there’s still one dealer who believes very strongly that we will be purchasing when rates go up.  It’s interesting.  I’m not sure what to think of that dealer, but that dealer has been quizzed on this topic, and that’s what that dealer strongly believes.  That’s the one at minus 2. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions for Simon.  [No response] If not, may I ask for a vote on open market operations since the October meeting. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply reporting the different expectations and beliefs of the dealers.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 11.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As you know, I voted against extending the swap lines in November, and I remain opposed.  They amount to fiscal policy, and we can provide perfectly adequate dollar liquidity through open market operations. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. This vote is on open market operations, and I will give a moment for questions on your issue, but I take note of your comment.  So let’s do a vote on open market operations.  Any opposed.  [No response]  All right.  Let’s take that as approved. The second request is for an extension of liquidity swap lines.  You received an earlier memorandum on that.  We have both Simon and Steve Kamin here if there are any further questions.  Are there any further questions or comments on the swap lines. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker states that he opposes extending the swap lines, while the rest of the participants seem to be in favor of it. This is evident in the Chairman's response and the lack of opposition when a vote is taken on open market operations.


Passage number 12.
 MR. FISHER.  May I just ask what the status of our swap line with Mexico is.  Is it still open. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, the extraordinary swap lines that we had during the crisis are no longer extant.  What is there is longstanding, NAFTA-based, $3 billion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 13.
 MR. FISHER.  Okay.  Well, this extension doesn’t affect the existing swap lines.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No, it doesn’t affect them in any way.  We do those separately.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is providing a clear explanation without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 14.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you very much. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions. [No response] All right.  All in favor of extending the swap lines, please say aye.  [Chorus of ayes]  Any opposed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 15.
 MR. POTTER.  That would be above capital. MS. REMACHE.  Yes. MS. IHRIG. Total capital stock around that time is $100 billion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 16.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Can I have a two-hander. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, go ahead.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The person is simply giving permission to the other person to proceed with their request.


Passage number 17.
  VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But in the past I would imagine that we’ve had many periods of time where the capital losses on the portfolio were far bigger than our capital—for example, back in the early 1980s. MS. REMACHE.  That’s right.  We did some preliminary looking at some of those figures and found that in the early 1980s, the unrealized loss position on the portfolio was approximately 7 percent of the size of the portfolio at that time. Our projections are similar to that but just a bit larger.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Both speakers are agreeing with each other and providing additional information to support their point.


Passage number 18.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So they’re comparable. MS. REMACHE.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Sorry to interject one other thing.  I guess these capital losses, of course, are offsetting the remittances that we are now sending to the Treasury.  In the last four years, we have sent $280 billion to the Treasury, and obviously they would be larger over the lifetime of the security.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show contention or disagreement. Ms. Remanche simply adds information about the capital losses and their offsetting effect on remittances to the Treasury.


Passage number 19.
 MR. POTTER.  These are the unrealized ones. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Unrealized, yes. MS. IHRIG.  Also, one important point to make is that we would never sell the entire portfolio.  You would want the size of your SOMA portfolio to be at least as large as your currency in circulation, which is your big liability and which is more than $1 trillion right now.  You would never actually recognize all of those unrealized losses. MS. REMACHE. Let me add that if we considered the amount of the portfolio that is in excess of the level of currency at the time of these losses, under the $500 billion scenario we project unrealized losses to peak at about $240 billion, but $130 billion of that is associated with the portfolio that is larger than currency.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  When you look at tax revenues, do you look at actual collectability, or do you take what would be optimal and assume that everything is collectible that could be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of individuals providing additional information and clarifications on the topic at hand.


Passage number 20.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. The model includes equations for tax revenues, tax rates, and the income bases for various major federal taxes. Those factors are all endogenous with the state of the economy.  The model starts off with our baseline assumption for the average tax rate that’s going to be applied to the personal income tax received by households going forward.  The scenarios then assume that if the economy was growing stronger, you would have the tax base increasing more rapidly causing tax revenues to rise relative to the baseline. In addition, there’s a certain sensitivity of average tax rates to the state of the economy.  For instance, if the economy is doing better, you’re getting higher personal capital gains and things like that that boost the average tax rate.  So the model tries to model the endogeneity of tax revenues and the state of the business cycle.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply explaining how the model includes equations for various factors that are all endogenous with the state of the economy and how certain variables, such as tax base and average tax rates, are sensitive to the state of the economy.


Passage number 21.
 MR. WILCOX. It’s fit to actual data.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states that something is fit to actual data. There is no evident contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 22.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. It’s the actual tax revenue; it’s not any optimized estimate of what tax revenues could be in theory. MS. RASKIN.  So it takes a haircut for the lack of ability to collect fully.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both speakers are discussing the same concept of tax revenue and recognizing the limitations or challenges in fully collecting it.


Passage number 23.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Yes.  It’s based on the Treasury’s actual success in collecting revenues, and not based on some hypothetical collection experience. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement made by Mr. Reifschneider, followed by an agreement or affirmation by President Plosser.


Passage number 24.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I have two questions I’d like to seek clarification on, following up on the remittances and on charts 5 and 6, about the difference in the pace of sales and how that affects remittances.  I want to go back to the first page on the pace of shrinking the balance sheet   on the SOMA sales and how the “No Sales” options of the green lines on charts 5 and 6 translate into behaviors of both unemployment and inflation in those charts, if at all.  How would it change those charts. MS. IHRIG. If we don’t do sales, then we would think that the SOMA portfolio is larger for a longer period of time.  This scenario means we’re not putting duration back into the public’s hands, which would imply we would keep holding interest rates down for a longer period of time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification on the implications of not doing sales on the balance sheet and how it would affect unemployment and inflation. The other speaker provides an explanation without expressing any disagreement.


Passage number 25.
 MR. PLOSSER.  And how will that show up in the unemployment and the inflation charts. MS. IHRIG. That’s a little harder because I would think if you’re not doing sales, then you might want to consider when the fed funds rate will lift off as well because that would also feed into the macroeconomy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The individuals are having a conversation and discussing how certain factors may impact unemployment and inflation, as well as the timing of the fed funds rate lift off.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 26.
  MR. PLOSSER.  It’s hard to make a translation between these charts 5 and 6, which look like small changes, into what they might look like in the previous charts.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, suggests that there is difficulty in translating small changes in charts 5 and 6 into the previous charts. This implies a disagreement or uncertainty regarding the relationship between the charts and their respective changes.


Passage number 27.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think it’s fair to say that the effects on inflation and unemployment would be relatively small.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. English, simply states their opinion that the effects on inflation and unemployment would be relatively small.


Passage number 28.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Why.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage only contains a statement by Mr. Plosser and does not present any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 29.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Because the effect on our usual calculations of term premium effects would be relatively small.  This balance sheet is larger by a relatively modest amount out in 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020.  And those effects, just the way the modeling works on term premiums today, would be relatively small, and therefore the effect on the macroeconomy would be expected to be relatively small.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention, it simply states that the effect on term premium effects and the macroeconomy would be relatively small.


Passage number 30.
  MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Two other things.  First, Bill’s point is exactly right. Second— getting back to the point that Jane raised—out there later in the decade the funds rate is moving in response to changes in economic conditions.  To the extent that the balance sheet was providing any additional stimulus out toward the second half of the decade, the funds rate would be somewhat higher, which would tend to offset the stimulus from the balance sheet.  This outcome is conditional, the way we run it, on people having full confidence in the Fed doing what needs to be done for stabilizing inflation, and so on.  I don’t know whether you were thinking about it this way or not, but in terms of looking at figure 5 in the second exhibit, if you thought that pushing renormalization out further was going to worry a lot of people, then you could have expectational effects on inflation that aren’t taken account of in this scenario.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 31.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you.  I have one other question that is kind of related to that.  We had a memo from the staff about forecasts of unemployment rates, and if I remember correctly, using FRB/US the root mean squared error on the one-quarter-ahead unemployment rate was about 50 basis points; two-quarters-ahead it was about 80 basis points.  So how do I think about that reality versus the notion that we are now, through simulations of the model that is making those forecasts, saying that we are going to accurately predict changes of somewhere around 30 or 40 basis points three years out.  How do I think about putting these two memos together and how meaningful it might or might not be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 32.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I think you are getting at two different types of uncertainty. One is that in terms of the actual effect of some policy action, like the policy actions that we are talking about here, there is uncertainty about what its marginal effects would be on the economy.  We are just giving you point estimates, but as we pointed out, there is a huge degree of uncertainty about what their marginal impact would be on the economy.  But the other memoabout the labor market provides a different take on uncertainty, which goes beyond what the marginal effect of policy would be: It is a highly uncertain world; all sorts of unexpected things can hit the economy.  Therefore, our ability to forecast where the unemployment rate will be in a year or two, or even a few months, is quite uncertain.  But that uncertainty is distinct from uncertainty about the effects of policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is discussing two different types of uncertainty and explaining that they are distinct from each other.


Passage number 33.
 MR. PLOSSER.  These forecasts are in the absence of shocks, so this uncertainty here is about what you believe to be the structure of the marginal effect—this outcome is a model outcome, I understand.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser is simply seeking clarification or confirmation about the nature of the forecasts being discussed.


Passage number 34.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. It is a model outcome, and there is a lot of uncertainty around its estimate of the marginal effect.  And then, in addition, there is a much wider uncertainty in the world around what will happen to unemployment and other factors.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that there is uncertainty surrounding the estimate of the marginal effect and a wider uncertainty regarding other factors.


Passage number 35.
 MR. PLOSSER.  So these answers are built into the model—I mean, this answer is about what the model says as opposed to what some other model might say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the model and its answers.


Passage number 36.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Yes. So you could put confidence intervals on that, just on the basis of your uncertainty about the channel—how the policy would affect the economy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement present in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing the concept of confidence intervals and uncertainty in relation to the policy's effect on the economy.


Passage number 37.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, we are just asking questions here, not giving our opinions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Please.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is simply stating that they are asking questions and not giving their opinions.


Passage number 38.
 MR. FISHER.  I do have a question.  This time is the first that I remember—and maybe I haven’t read everything as carefully as the others at the table—an explicit discussion about the likely tax revenue consequences of our actions.  I’m assuming—and this is my question—that this is sort of a way to justify what may be nonremittances or deferred assets. Is that a correct assumption.  In other words, we can say, “Look, this change was a consequence of our policy, but look at what we got for it.” Is that fair. MS. IHRIG.  Well, I think that part of it was to put it in the framework of the entire economy.  That is, if we have low remittances, why are we having low remittances, or why are we having a deferred asset.  And we wanted to remind everybody that it might be because the macroeconomy is improving.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher asks a question about the reasoning behind discussing tax revenue consequences, and Ms. Ihrig provides an explanation that aligns with his question.


Passage number 39.
 MR. FISHER.  So we got a benefit at this cost. MS. IHRIG. There is, in the overall macroeconomy, a benefit.  I think that was the main point of putting that in the memo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Fisher and Ms. Ihrig are agreeing on the presence of a benefit in the overall macroeconomy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 40.
 MR. FISHER.  My second question is on the assumption of a one-for-one pass-through of the decline in the 10-year Treasury—not so much to the primary mortgages, but to corporate bond rates, which would have the usual impact on investment spending.  These assumptions are imposed.  You gave a good speech, Governor Stein, in which you said that declines in longer-term rates from lower-term premiums may not change the hurdle rate for new investments.  We have other models—I mean, there are a lot of disclaimers here.  Page 7 is like when you buy a prescription drug and you get this long printout:  Don’t do this; don’t do that.  And it even says that the economic theory underlying asset purchases is only partially developed.  So I want to explore that one-for-one pass-through.  We are at a point, as Simon pointed out—and by the way, excellent presentation—where we have had this enormous rally, a lot of issuance.  Interestingly, yesterday with Brown-Forman’s issue of that one bond—they are the purveyors of Jack Daniel’s whiskey, which is why I paid attention to it—we did break through the record at $1.025 trillion in investment-grade credits.  We passed through the junk mark that you pointed out in your October presentation, I forget in which chart. The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is now   .5, which is above pre-crisis levels.  So I am just wondering how confident you are in the one-to-one pass-through, and, very importantly, how dependent on that one-to-one pass-through are the conclusions that you drew.  Granted, you are very careful to state that there is a lot of uncertainty around the one-to-one pass-through, but how dependent on it is your analysis. MS. REMACHE.  I think, as you correctly point out, we are using just one modeling framework for estimating these effects, and under that framework shifts in the risk of public-sector holdings have an effect on the term premium embedded in interest rates, and then that feeds through to other interest rates.  Whether or how the one-for-one pass-through to things like corporates and such affects the results is a modeling question that perhaps Dave could elaborate on. But there are other models in which these purchases may impact markets.  If there is segmentation, it may depend more on which assets you are buying and how that works.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, expresses doubt and skepticism about the assumption of a one-for-one pass-through of the decline in interest rates to corporate bond rates. He mentions that there are disclaimers and uncertainties in the economic theory underlying asset purchases. The speaker questions the confidence in the one-to-one pass-through and how dependent the conclusions are on it. In response, Ms. Remache acknowledges the use of just one modeling framework and suggests that there are other models that may have different impacts on the markets.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 41.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  So my overall response is:  How uncertain am I. I am not very certain at all.  In terms of the first thing you focused on, the pass-through into corporate rates, I am less worried about that.  There is a lot of evidence that it may not be one for one, but nonetheless the evidence supports a pretty high pass-through into corporate bond rates.  However, the evidence on what it does to the exchange rate and the stock market, and going from there to what these various changes in long-term interest rates and other asset financial conditions do to the real economy—there is a tremendous amount of uncertainty about that.  These effects could be smaller.  It could be that the effects have changed over time because the conditions that existed back in 2009, when we first got into these purchases, are different now.  So expectational effects, confidence effects, market functioning effects—these effects may be different now from what they were. So, without belaboring the point, I’d say there is a lot of   uncertainty.  There are reasons to think the effects could be smaller than what we are generating with FRB/US. I should say, though, that one also has to worry that maybe FRB/US doesn’t capture all of the relevant channels and that there could be offsets in other directions.  For example, we are not taking account of any positive feedback on house prices.  In reality, the low-mortgage-rate environment that you have put in place is bumping up house prices.  Moreover, maybe that bumping up of house prices is having favorable effects on certain households—increasing their access to credit or the willingness of banks to provide credit, and so on.  Anyway, my point is simply that there is a tremendous amount of uncertainty.  There are good arguments for why FRB/US’s effects may be too large.  I think there are also arguments for why FRB/US may be neglecting some things that could be important. It is extremely difficult to tie these forecasts down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The passage indicates that there is uncertainty and disagreement regarding the effects of certain economic factors, such as the pass-through into corporate rates, the effects on the exchange rate and stock market, and the overall impact on the real economy. The speaker mentions that there are reasons to believe the effects could be smaller than what is predicted by FRB/US, but also suggests that the model may not capture all the relevant channels and there could be offsets in other directions. This disagreement and uncertainty among different arguments and factors contribute to the contention within the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 42.
 MR. FISHER.  But a few certainties come out of these forecasts: The first is the high likelihood of a deferred asset.  Second, a possible likelihood of balance sheet impairment— possible, low probability.  Third, a possible need for us to change our exit strategy.  At least the first and the third I just stated seem like highly likely outcomes under either strategy.  Is that correct. MS. IHRIG.  I think in terms of the deferred asset, there are a lot of assumptions that go into the balance sheet and income projections.  One of the inputs is the financial market conditions, or the interest rate paths.  You can see just by comparing the memo—which used the October Tealbook rates—with those using the December Tealbook—which actually has lower rates because the staff projection is that the economy is a little weaker and the fed funds rate lifts off a little later, and the path is a little lower.  The deferred asset for the $500 billion program is not there in the December Tealbook, and in the $1 trillion of purchases next year, the deferred asset went from $45 billion down to $4 billion.  I don’t know if you want to say those are large or modest changes in interest rate assumptions, but with such changes we can have relatively large changes in the size of the deferred asset in the projections.  I don’t know how you want to think of that in terms of how certain or uncertain we are about our projections.  However, they do rely on the financial market conditions we are expecting going forward. MS. REMACHE.  I would just add that the third point about exit strategy does factor importantly into the pattern of income and remittances to the Treasury.  Of course, the exit strategy could be changed.  We looked at a “No Sale” scenario as sort of an illustrative example of that.  There are other variations that I think could be explored.  But it was quite notable in the memo that using those higher interest rates had such a substantial effect on the pattern of income and the deferred asset that was recorded.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. 

In the beginning, Mr. Fisher states that a deferred asset and a possible need for a change in exit strategy are highly likely outcomes under either strategy. However, Ms. Ihrig introduces the possibility of changes in interest rate assumptions and financial market conditions that could lead to different projections for the deferred asset. She suggests that the projections are not certain and depend on the expected financial market conditions.

Ms. Remache also adds that the exit strategy could be changed and that there are other variations that could be explored. This implies that there is disagreement or uncertainty about the best approach to the exit strategy and its impact on income and the deferred asset.


Passage number 43.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, I want to thank you for a very thoughtful, however scary, memo.  Thank you very much for your good work. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude and appreciation for a memo.


Passage number 44.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  My question is, how sensitive are your results to your assumption of what a normalized balance sheet looks like.  Think of three different options:  one where you return to a T-bill–only balance sheet, one where you hold all of the longest-duration Treasuries, and one where you hold an entirely mortgage-backed securities portfolio.  Those are the three extremes.  Would there be much difference in what these patterns would look like, or would that not make a big difference. MS. IHRIG. In terms of the contour, I don’t think it makes much difference.  What the contour is really reflecting is the exit strategy assumption we have in terms of MBS rolling off,  or if you are only holding MBS, then it would just be the Treasuries rolling off.  You would have slightly different contour, but you would first have it declining from whatever peak we have.  And then, the normalization to the point where the size of the balance sheet is the normal size, again, that is going to reflect the liabilities we have. The currency in circulation is your biggest liability.  So in terms of the contour, not necessarily. In terms of income, it would matter. MS. REMACHE.  I think on that point, ultimately, in the long run, the composition of the portfolio would then affect the overall yield.  If the portfolio were fully bills, then the yield would presumably be lower than a portfolio of all longer-duration assets, whether they were Treasuries or MBS. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are simply discussing different scenarios and their potential impacts.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 45.
 MR. PLOSSER. Presumably you’ve got a starting date for what would be a normal-sized SOMA portfolio—what is the date, and what is your underlying assumption about how fast that is going to grow until you get to 2021 that gives you this trend line. MS. IHRIG. The date actually isn’t a fixed date. We look at the fact that as, say, you do sales of MBS or Treasuries roll off the portfolio, that is going to drain reserves, and we have to hit some normal level of reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in this passage. The contention arises from the different perspectives on the starting date and growth assumptions for the SOMA portfolio. Mr. Plosser wants to know the specific starting date and the underlying assumption about its growth, while Ms. Ihrig suggests that the date is not fixed and the growth will depend on various factors such as the sales of MBS or Treasuries.


Passage number 46.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I’m trying to figure out where you come up with the normal. MS. IHRIG.  Yes.  In the analysis we do, we assume pre-crisis reserve balances of $25 billion.  That is when we decide normalization is, but at the same time, you have to look at what the currency is in the portfolio at that point in time.  So normalization is when reserve balances hit $25 billion and whatever currency happens to be at that point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining their process for determining normalization based on pre-crisis reserve balances.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 47.
 MR. PLOSSER.  But you are making some assumption about the growth rate of currency, and that’s the question I’m asking.  What are you assuming the growth rate of currency is. MS. IHRIG.  Yes.  The growth rate of currency is whatever the growth rate of nominal GDP is.  If you look at the annual growth rate of currency over, say, the last 20 years, the last 10 years, the last 5 years, it is around 6 percent.  So implicitly that is what we have for the long-term trend. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is a disagreement in the passage. Mr. Plosser is questioning the assumption made by Ms. Ihrig about the growth rate of currency, indicating a potential contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 48.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’d like to thank the staff for this detailed memo on balance sheet options, which I thought was very good.  I have two comments on the memo.  One comment is that I would like to see more emphasis on the adjustability of the balance sheet policy and the associated automatic stabilizer effects.  The second comment is that I thought that some scenarios seem politically untenable to me, as I think the Congress would reconsider allowing the payment of interest on reserves. Let me just talk about balance sheet adjustability first.  The memo emphasizes the total expected amount of the increase in the size of the balance sheet when discussing the impact of the balance sheet policy in the near term.  I see this approach as a practical way of laying down some alternatives for the Committee.  However, I think it also tends to deemphasize one of the great strengths of the September 2012 decision, namely, that the program can and should be adjusted as the data on the economy arrive.  Committee adjustments would send an important signal to the private sector concerning how the Committee thinks the economy is performing relative to expectations.  Private sector expectations about the total size and duration of the program will also adjust according to the relative strength or weakness in incoming data.  This is  the automatic stabilizer feature of the current policy.  The great advantage of this approach is that we do not have to lay down today exactly what the total size and duration of the program will be—a guess that will likely turn out to be inaccurate as events unfold during the coming quarters.  Instead, we can lay down a baseline path in the expectation that the path will likely be adjusted as the data arrive. One implication of this approach to policy is that there is less need to commit to an extensive program today, before we know how the 2013 U.S. economy is actually going to perform.  So I thought that, maybe by necessity about the way the analysis had to be done, that part just couldn’t be captured; I think it would be too difficult to capture that.  But I think it’s an important consideration for the Committee. My second point is about the political feasibility of some of the balance sheet scenarios.  The Federal Reserve was granted authority to pay interest on reserves in 2008.  The Congress had previously opposed use of this tool for monetary policy for many decades.  Some scenarios in the memo have the Fed claiming a deferred asset for purposes of remittances to the Treasury but simultaneously making rather large interest payments to mostly very large banks.  My view is that such a scenario is politically treacherous and may result in the Congress reverting to the previous policy of not allowing the payment of interest on reserves to large banks.  Losing the ability to pay interest on reserves would, of course, have devastating consequences for the Committee’s exit strategy.  So I caution the Committee that we probably do not want to be in the situation where the perception is that payments to the Treasury are on hold but payments to banks are substantial.  I think that the staff also recognizes political difficulties, but that is up to the judgment of the Committee here.  So I just wanted to point that one out because I think it is a glaring one in this particular analysis.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Any other questions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard disagrees with some scenarios in the memo as he believes they are politically untenable and may result in Congress revoking the ability to pay interest on reserves to large banks. Additionally, he believes that the memo should emphasize the adjustability of the balance sheet policy and the associated automatic stabilizer effects more.


Passage number 49.
MR. ENGLISH.  One thought for President Bullard.  On your first point, we did have a memo back in August that tried to talk about some of these benefits of open-ended, flexible programs that could be adjusted.  I think the question we discussed there, but I don’t think really resolved, is the potential for a benefit in terms of business and consumer confidence that the Federal Reserve will adjust if there are shocks and keep the economy on track.  But we were never, I think, able to figure out how big that effect would be.  But it seemed like a potential benefit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is acknowledging that there was a previous discussion about the potential benefits of open-ended, flexible programs that could be adjusted by the Federal Reserve, but they were unable to determine the magnitude of the effect.


Passage number 50.
 MR. BULLARD.  Yes.  And I appreciate that previous analysis; I just didn’t want to forget it in the discussion here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Question. President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It only mentions a previous analysis that the speaker appreciates and wants to remember.


Passage number 51.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I can phrase it as a question.  [Laughter] I will be brief, Mr. Chairman.  My brief comment is that when I read this memo—this memo, as you said yourself, is just excellent—I thought the discussion of the negative or zero remittance issue was quite complete, and I appreciated that.  This memo really brought home to me more than the previous memos we got from the staff that I think there is a relatively high probability that we may have a period of zero remittances, whatever we choose to be our exit strategy.  And I would urge us to think about communicating proactively about this possibility with a number of constituencies: the Congress; our external auditors; and, ultimately, the public.  I don’t think we should just wait until the time when we have zero remittances to begin that communication.  I think we should start planning for that communication now. I think it integrates with restructuring our exit strategy principles, which probably will not be tenable given the size of the balance sheet that we are likely to embark on.  I’m not sure the best way to structure that conversation.  One idea that struck me as potentially fruitful is to have the hardest working people in central banking, our  communications subcommittee, formulate a plan of attack.  But however we choose to proceed, I do think we should be communicating proactively about this possibility. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is agreement in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 52.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a comment and related question, and the comment was inspired by the line of questioning from Governor Raskin and the staff’s response.  First, a compliment:  This memo is exceptionally helpful on a very important issue.  Set aside two things:  one, that we would run out of assets that we would want to sell to draw down our liabilities; and, two, the political risks of no remittances and a big deferred asset, which are highly consequential. Set those aside. I always thought that the economic argument for the irrelevance of unrealized capital losses and the zero remittances was the fact that on the Treasury’s balance sheet there is an equal and opposite sort of capital gain due to the fall in the real market value of their liabilities. Now, viewed through this lens, this analysis sort of shines a spotlight on a can of worms here that we haven’t really talked about. This whole analysis is based on the implications of taking duration risk, and it points out that it doesn’t disappear:  It flows through our income statement eventually.  So the traditional approach to these kinds of things—you know, in some settings you can sort of consolidate the Fed’s and the Treasury’s balance sheets, and in others it makes sense to keep them separate.  But looking at the balance sheet naturally draws you to looking at the government’s intertemporal budget constraint, and through that lens, there are going to be ramifications down the road for tax or spending policy.  If you truncate your horizon and just look a certain number of years ahead, you have this sort of free variable—debt at the end of the horizon.  And I’m assuming that in all your analysis of taking duration out, you haven’t really gone through the implications of the government’s intertemporal budget constraint; you   just let debt at the end of the period be the free variable.  And that is consistent with figure 2 in exhibit 2 up here.  I don’t know if it is empirically consequential or not, but it suggests that it would be useful to at least check to see that there aren’t any implications—especially at a time where many perceive us as getting close to the limits of a debt-to-GDP ratio that we find sustainable.  I don’t know if you have thought about that or not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, expresses disagreement or disagreement with the analysis presented and suggests that there may be implications for the government's intertemporal budget constraint and debt-to-GDP ratio that have not been adequately considered.


Passage number 53.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. The way we run it in the long, long run, the debt-to-GDP ratio is stable. So tax rates are responding endogenously in the simulations to get back to the same baseline debt-to-GDP ratio.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about the way they run their simulations.


Passage number 54.
 MR. LACKER.  Oh, okay.  All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker seems to be acknowledging and accepting the statement or question made by someone else.


Passage number 55.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Now, that’s occurring after 2025, and that is a gradual process.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about a gradual process occurring after 2025.


Passage number 56.
 MR. LACKER.  Does that come into play across scenarios here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is a question asking for clarification, rather than expressing disagreement or contradiction.


Passage number 57.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Well, agents understand that in the long run, none of these policies will affect the long-run debt-to-GDP ratio. They understand it will affect it out for 10 years, and then tax rates will adjust, and so on, to bring that debt-to-GDP ratio back to where it is in the baseline case.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of understanding about the long-term effects of policies on the debt-to-GDP ratio.


Passage number 58.
 MR. LACKER.  But it is way out past 2025.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply indicates that something is happening beyond the year 2025.


Passage number 59.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. It is beyond 2025, yes.  Well, it is already starting to occur a little bit.  You can’t quite see it from the graph, but if you were looking at the simulation results for 2025, you could see tax rates starting to evolve endogenously.  A lot of this effect is primarily a residual of that fact that there is a “free lunch” aspect to the current economy, in that the economy is underutilized at the moment.  Additional asset purchases bring the economy back closer to potential output.  That’s a revenue gain that lasts for a while.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a statement explaining the potential effects of additional asset purchases on tax rates.


Passage number 60.
   MR. LACKER.  All right.  Well, it sounds like the staff has a clean way of handling it. I didn’t know that.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Seeing no other questions, why don’t we go on to item 3, again, with our thanks to the presenters and the authors for some very helpful work.  Item 3 is “Economic and Financial Situation.” We will also have commentary on financial stability and on the Summary of Economic Projections.  Let me ask David Wilcox to lead off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a straightforward statement of appreciation and transition to the next agenda item.


Passage number 61.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a factual one for Jennifer and then more of an open-ended, analytic one for Michael.  Jennifer, I don’t think it is in the package, but you recounted the varying views on total asset purchases.  Would you mind repeating that. MS. ROUSH. There were nine that agreed with Tealbook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 62.
 MR. TARULLO.  When you say “agreed with Tealbook,” do you mean the presumption of half a trillion extra.MS. ROUSH. Through mid-2013.  That’s right.  And then, seven thought there should potentially be higher purchases.  And there was a range, but some of those continued through the end of 2013.  And then, there were three additional participants who saw a lower level of purchases.  One of those saw a beginning of tapering, and two of those saw an end of purchases now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are simply discussing different opinions and positions on the level of purchases.


Passage number 63.
 MR. TARULLO.  Okay.  Thank you.  Michael, you were careful in your presentation to talk about risk associated with an observed search for yield and the appropriateness or inappropriateness of risk because at some level it seems a bit odd to worry about people trying to find things that actually yield them money, and you are worried about that only when the risk seems somehow inappropriate.  As you do financial stability assessment, how do you distinguish between healthy and unhealthy search for yield, which is to say the risk component: Is it largely based on variance from historical observation, or is there some other metric that you are using.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is asking for clarification on how to distinguish between a healthy and unhealthy search for yield, specifically in terms of the risk component. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 64.
 MR. KILEY.  I think we try to look at a broad range of things.  You know, that is probably our greatest challenge.  We want people to take more risks.  That’s how people make money; that’s how new businesses are formed. But we want people to understand the risks that they are taking and not to take risks that have externalities or systemic consequences that they don’t take into account in making their decisions.  When we look at individual instruments, certainly we look at the degree to which any development is outside of a historical norm.  I think, generally speaking, we also try to look at a lot of information.  Certainly we are particularly interested in developments within the financial system and within systemically important institutions, but we also look at overall movements in credit in the nonfinancial sector, like in the first exhibit, because, in the past, that has been one of the indicators of systemic risk.  Looking backward, that is something that we could see clearly in 2006 and 2007.  We look for an erosion in credit terms and other things, like we do in those exhibits. And then we also look for other things that aren’t in the exhibits because we just don’t see them right now:  embedded leverage within the financial system; a lot of short-term funding; maturity transformation going on to finance things that if sentiment were to shift quickly, that financing would disappear and people would have to unwind positions.  That was missing from my exhibits because while we have seen an increase in the willingness to bear risk in some places, we haven’t seen much appetite for employing leverage. Now our indicators are imperfect, but we haven’t seen it in those indicators or in our conversations with market participants. I think, in general, it is really hard. We really would love to be able to identify when risk-taking was excessive.  I think we try to be prudent and just look for when there is risk-taking and not think we know too well when it is excessive.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing their approach to assessing risk and stating that they try to be prudent and cautious in identifying excessive risk-taking.


Passage number 65.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you.  I also have a question for Michael concerning financial stability.  First of all, I want to thank you for an insightful and important presentation.  But one concern I have around financial stability is an unexpected sharp rise in interest rates, and I applaud the work that’s being done to see how banks can handle an interest rate shock, as well as our CCAR exercise where there’s an adverse scenario that considers such interest rate movements.  I think those results will help us understand and give us some insights into how banks will react. But I also think that we should be examining how community banks and other investors will adjust to a sharp rise in interest rates.  My contacts report that the FOMC asset purchase programs have led investors to take on more duration and credit risk, and, while, as you   point out, Michael, that may be the FOMC’s intention, they are starting to express a number of concerns.  Senior officials who I talked to at a large mutual fund company noted that $1.5 trillion has moved from money market funds into bond funds, making individual investors’ portfolios more vulnerable to rate increases when they come. In addition, my contacts have stressed that this current low interest rate environment is unfamiliar and is starting to upset some of the longstanding behavioral patterns of investors.  For example, I’m being told that younger people are staying out of the stock market because all they’ve mainly seen is losses over this period of time, while retirees are moving into the stock market to get the dividends. Given that people may be changing their behaviors and not reacting as they did in the past, I think we should be aware of the unintended and perhaps unexpected consequences of this low interest rate environment.  I don’t see a sharp rise in interest rates on the list of the risk scenarios that were handed out in the package on financial markets and institutions, and maybe we should consider putting it on that list.  The memo that was circulated mentions that such developments bear watching.  So my question is, how are we thinking about monitoring and assessing that risk as we think about financial stability in the future.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing her concerns and suggesting that monitoring the risk of a sharp rise in interest rates should be included in their assessment of financial stability. There is no conflict or disagreement with any other speaker or viewpoint.


Passage number 66.
 MR. KILEY.  We think it’s very important to monitor that risk, and we have done so in a variety of ways related to the CCAR exercise or the exercise you referred to with regard to banks.  Let me talk about a few things that we’re looking at and doing and a few things about which some people are concerned and some people aren’t as concerned yet.  As you know, there has been guidance issued over the last several years that banks should be focused on interest rate risk, so certainly, with supervisors going out to smaller banks, not just those involved in the CCAR exercises, it is on their radar screen. In thinking about other investors, certainly we’ve heard—and we have teams that monitor thinking about developments in pension funds or at insurers—and there have been signs of some changes, perhaps, in the duration of their assets or in their willingness to take on credit risk at insurers, for example.  They are heavily regulated, and they actually do go through quite a few interest rate scenarios as part of their normal stress testing.  They’re called the New York Seven, and they involve various changes in the shape of the yield curve and movements that can be sizable.  That’s performed; we don’t necessarily see all of those results, but we know that’s going on, and it’s something we want to be more attuned to.  But I don’t think we’ve seen any large changes in the positions at large insurers, for example, over the last several years.  There seem to be some gradual shifts, but nothing dramatic. One thing that some people have talked about is this shift into bond funds from more retail money, perhaps facilitated to some degree by ETFs.  And there are staff members who are wondering about the degree to which, if that money were to reverse, it would place strains in corporate bond and loan markets—that those markets just are less liquid, and not especially liquid today.  So if there were a large reversal, I think there is potential for concern there.  That concern could involve individuals losing a lot of money.  There is a question about the degree to which that is a financial stability risk.  One might imagine, for example, that some retail investors, to the extent they’re driving bond funds, may move out quickly for a retail investor, but they will, perhaps unfortunately for them, have moved out after highly interconnected dealers or others may have moved out.  So we are not as clear on the degree to which that is a financial stability risk, but it is something we want to think about.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is providing information and discussing various concerns without expressing disagreement or contention.


Passage number 67.
 MR. POTTER. I should add that something Bill did when he started at the Desk was increase our contacts with the buy side, and we are meeting with a variety of people and tracking pretty similar information there.  I think from 2005 onward, we would have done well to have listened more to what the buy side was doing. MS. PIANALTO.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement from Mr. Potter about increasing contact with the buy side and acknowledging the need to listen more to what the buy side was doing. Ms. Pianalto responds with a thank you.


Passage number 68.
 MR. PLOSSER.  To shift from financial stability back to the forecast, David, you talked a lot about uncertainty and pessimism and how those two perhaps either interact or differ or are the same, and the slow process by which that is likely to be removed; that represents a big headwind on the economy from the staff’s forecast.  I actually happen to believe that general proposition, but I have two questions.  One is, what does FRB/US tell you without that adjustment about the path of the economy. In other words, how important is that in the nature of your forecast.  That would be one question I would have, and I don’t know how much light you can shed on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser is asking a question for clarification and seeking additional information.


Passage number 69.
 MR. WILCOX.  I don’t think FRB/US speaks to uncertainty per se—I’m looking to Dave Reifschneider.  What we’ve done and what I was describing is a sort of judgmental overlay.  It’s a modest effect.  For example, I think that we’ve assumed that related to the fiscal cliff, the uncertainty component alone will take something on the order of about ¼ percentage point off GDP growth over the first half of this coming year, and then that will lift as a restraining factor. Boy, at this point, our ability to discern those kinds of effects is pretty limited.  John Stevens had another panel that I thought was really nice yesterday that showed analysts’ mean expectations of earnings and the dispersion among analysts.  Now, the dispersion is a rough and imperfect proxy for analysts’ true uncertainty, but there’s a fair amount of literature suggesting that there is probably something to it as a proxy for true uncertainty.  Those two things are very highly negatively correlated.  So when pessimism increases—in other words, when the mean expectation comes down—uncertainty goes up, and that reverses pretty reliably on the other side.  That suggests that there’s quite a lot of colinearity between those two variables.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing their observations and findings related to uncertainty and its effects on GDP growth and analysts' expectations.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 70.
   MR. PLOSSER.  Yes.  I appreciate that, but I was also noting that, particularly in the bottom-right panel, the blue line representing the policy uncertainty index is actually highly volatile, it seems to me.  So the way you described it and the Tealbook described it, you’ve got this pessimism and uncertainty sort of waning very gradually but continuing to weigh on things for what appears to be a fair amount of time into the future.  Yet this index seems to be highly volatile, and it could turn out that it could drop very sharply under some circumstances, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker is pointing out a potential disagreement or contention by bringing up the volatility of the policy uncertainty index. They suggest that the index could drop sharply under certain circumstances, which may contradict the explanation given by the Tealbook and the speaker.


Passage number 71.
 MR. WILCOX.  It could.  Now, I haven’t given you enough history here on the panel for you to be able to discern.  The main thing that’s happened to that blue line is that it’s just higher post–2007 than it was before.  One of the key points that I was trying to illustrate is that we’re getting conflicting readings from these two different gauges, and we’re trying to wrestle with this.  Our measurement tools are pretty imperfect, and the analytical apparatus itself is a little creaky, too.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply explaining that the blue line is higher after 2007 compared to before, and that conflicting readings from different gauges are being dealt with.


Passage number 72.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, is simply thanking President Kocherlakota.


Passage number 73.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a couple of quick questions and comments on the financial stability report, and they build, I think, nicely on President Pianalto’s remarks. I think she pointed out that we are having a very unusual experience, from at least the postwar experience in the United States, in terms of how long interest rates have been low and are expected to remain low.  But there are other countries that have had these low interest rate environments for extended periods:  Japan in the past 15 years or so; the United States in the 1930s.  I’m wondering to what extent we can look at those historical experiences as guides to what we should be looking for in our current environment to try to build up notions of  financial excesses in these low interest rate environments.  They may not be the same as what we experienced in 2006 and 2007; it may take different forms. Second, President Pianalto mentioned her concern about interest rates spiking upward, which I think is very much a risk we should be keeping in our minds.  But I’m actually also concerned about the possibility of longer-term interest rates sliding down further.  Because interest rates are so low, people don’t think about this risk as much, which is, I think, a reason to think about it more.  If you think about inflation expectations sliding down from where they are right now or, maybe even more possible, a further flight to quality driven by European events, both of those would drive down longer-term yields still further. So I was wondering what would be the effect on financial stability if we had a 50 to 100 basis point fall in longer-term Treasury yields over the course of 2013.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It consists of the speaker's questions and comments about historical experiences and possible risks in the current low interest rate environment.


Passage number 74.
 MR. KILEY.  On that second point, I think we certainly should acknowledge that interest rates can definitely go lower or higher. In the CCAR exercise, the stress test we’re putting the banks through, long-term interest rates fall about 50 basis points further, and the economy is quite weak.  So at least we’ll have some information from that process on the developments on the banking side, in terms of the credit losses from the very weak economy.  In thinking about low interest rates due to a very weak economy, that’s where much of the concern will be.  In terms of thinking about the international experience, we certainly have looked at Japan, and I know many people throughout the System have.  The Japanese had low interest rates for a long time.  One hasn’t seen them get out of that experience, and one hasn’t particularly seen too many issues related to financial stability. There haven’t been crises in Japan where you’ve seen a further leg down.  Now, they have had significant strains on some institutions.  In the late 1990s, seven large insurers failed.  They failed for reasons that perhaps reflect what caused them to get   into a low interest rate environment, rather than the low interest rate environment itself.  They actually had much riskier portfolios than insurers in the United States, and the combination of a decline in stock prices with the fact that they competed with a government-run insurer that was able to underprice them and had a government guarantee essentially made them uncompetitive, so they went out of business. I think we want to look further there.  One thing that I, of course, don’t want to bet on but that we talk about is that a lot of people are concerned that the risk to financial stability will arise when the economy looks like it’s getting better, perhaps quickly, and people start changing their behavior.  And that will be the situation where the Committee will be thinking hard about whether interest rates need to go up.  I think we want to be attuned to the persistently low interest rate environment creating incentives for people to do new things that they underappreciate, and we’re on the lookout for that.  Going forward—I guess my bias, and I hope it doesn’t drive us too much—we really need to be concerned when people start being really optimistic, not during this current period. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is primarily providing information and exploring different perspectives on the topic of low interest rates and financial stability.


Passage number 75.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I wanted to make one quick point to add to Steve Kamin’s observations.  Having just come back from Germany and taken advantage of the trip that Dennis Lockhart, Christine Cumming, and I took to get some insight into Schäuble’s mind—it’s a relationship that goes back a very long time.  And by the way, he had a full willingness to discuss with me his feelings because I’m not an employee of the federal government, and he knew that I would not pass it on except to this Committee.  [Laughter]  He does not share his feelings with employees of the U.S. government.  First of all—and we reported some of this information back to Steve Kamin—Germany is nowhere near its breaking point politically, in   terms of support for Europe—I think that’s important—and for paying to make the European project work because he said “the guilt is in our bones; we know that.”  The opposition to bailouts is stronger than the CDU–CSU coalition. What’s very interesting about seeing him work is that he was the interior minister.  He has intelligence on every single one of them, and he’s extremely effective in terms of getting folks to work.  So point number one is they are nowhere near a choking point on their willingness to continue, and point number two, for what it’s worth, is he’s certain that another Greek restructuring is more or less inevitable. Just two other quick points.  With regard to financial stability, I thought Michael’s presentation was excellent.  You know, one of the rules of thumb has been that when sovereign wealth funds start to buy things, it’s a bottom—that is, you want to get out.  And just going through some of the recent issues, I notice that for Disney’s issue—it did a 3-year, 10-year, and 30-year recently—30 percent of the takedown was sovereign wealth funds: Norwegians and others.  I don’t know if that’s atypical, but that’s something you may begin to just watch.  I don’t know if that’s out of proportion or not, but the rates were extraordinary.  It was, along with Texas Instruments, 45 basis points for the 3-year and now to 370 for the 30-year issue. I don’t know if we have a measurement as to how normal that is, but 30 percent seemed a fairly high number to me.  I would just suggest that—and maybe it’s not, but it is a general rule that at least most shrewd investors that I know follow—by the time they pile in, it’s time to sell them something.  Just an observation.  But I do want to thank you for this work.  This issue of financial stability is something that President Rosengren and President Kocherlakota and I and other presidents have been deeply interested in; so thanks to you, Nellie, sitting in the back row, and thanks to you, Michael, for your presentation. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing some insights and observations without contradicting or arguing against any previous statements or opinions.


Passage number 76.
   MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just have one question on exhibit 1, figure 1, which is “Private Nonfinancial Sector Credit-to-GDP Ratio.”  I’m just wondering what your interpretation of this figure is.  First of all, is the trend here the trend given by the HP filtered through these data, or is it HP filtered through something else. I think it is through these data.  And should I interpret it to mean that, according to this metric, deleveraging is overdone already or something like that, where you’d expect credit to ramp up again, or is that not where you want to go with this picture.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a question posed by Mr. Bullard for clarification regarding the interpretation of a specific figure.


Passage number 77.
 MR. KILEY.  Yes.  That would be the strong interpretation, which I don’t think we’d want to take.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing their opinion about a certain interpretation.


Passage number 78.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 79.
 MR. KILEY.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: The given passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 80.
  We look at this measure because there has been a fair amount of research really emphasizing that credit booms— MR. BULLARD.  So it’s HP filtered through these data.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is discussing the measure of credit booms and acknowledging that there has been research emphasizing the importance of this measure. The mention of MR. BULLARD seems to be a continuation of the discussion rather than a disagreement.


Passage number 81.
 MR. KILEY.  That’s right, and it’s HP filtered through all of these data. We understand that when you do that, you have a real problem with the endpoint:  Where does the delevering cycle end. It could be that we still have quite a way to go, and the fact that it is below the trend line could be misleading. My colleague, Rochelle Edge, has done research investigating some of the work by folks at the BIS and elsewhere on the usefulness of these measures in real time, and she’s found that they’re not hugely useful in real time but nonetheless are valuable to look at.  So I think we wouldn’t go further than saying it appears that firms and households in total are still delevering—that that process may be advanced, but we’re unsure.  So I’d put big confidence intervals around that red dotted line, and I wouldn’t take seriously the idea that we’ve overshot yet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing uncertainty and caution about the interpretation of data and the conclusion about the deleveraging cycle. They suggest that further analysis is needed and that the red dotted line should be treated with caution.


Passage number 82.
   MR. BULLARD. Maybe I could just suggest an alternative metric to compare this one with:  just take a nominal GDP—these are nominal figures, right.—trend and look where it is compared with nominal GDP from 1990 till today. I think credit ramped up dramatically over the decades and has come down some but would still be way above the nominal GDP trend.  Maybe that would give you the idea that, yes, there’s been deleveraging, but it has still got a long way to go.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is suggesting an alternative metric to compare and analyze the level of credit in relation to nominal GDP. They propose comparing the current credit levels to the nominal GDP trend from 1990 till today in order to determine if there has been deleveraging. They do not express any disagreement or contention with other statements or individuals.


Passage number 83.
 MR. KILEY.  Yes, I think essentially that’s really close to what’s here, if not almost exactly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage suggests agreement or confirmation rather than contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing that the statement being discussed is very similar or almost identical to what is already present.


Passage number 84.
 MR. BULLARD.  Oh, is it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The given passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 85.
 MR. KILEY. I think it’s literally a ratio of private nonfinancial sector credit to total nominal GDP, not private nonfinancial GDP. If you don’t view there being a secular trend, I think it indicates that we had a long credit boom, and that long credit boom has not been unwound, if you really think there’s some sort of stable ratio that we could see if we went significantly further back.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kiley is suggesting that the ratio being discussed is private nonfinancial sector credit to total nominal GDP, while someone else in the conversation seems to hold a different view.


Passage number 86.
 MR. BULLARD. I’m sorry. I’m stating it wrong.  It should be flat, according to my notion, and it’s not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is apologizing for stating something incorrectly and offering his personal opinion, but there is no conflicting viewpoint being presented.


Passage number 87.
 MR. KILEY.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kiley simply agrees with the previous statement.


Passage number 88.
 MR. BULLARD.  Got you.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  A two-handed intervention from the Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement between Mr. Bullard and the Vice Chairman. The response "Got you. Thank you." suggests understanding and agreement.


Passage number 89.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  The problem with assessing this ratio is determining where you should be.  And there are two big drivers:  one, the amount of financial intermediation that’s going on in the economy, which presumably is increasing over time, and which would tell you that there should probably be a secular uptrend, at least as you get to a higher level ofeconomic development; and, two, the tax code.  To the extent that you have mortgage interest deductibility and 401(k) plans, they’re also going to influence where you end up.  I think it’s very hard to know where we are today relative to where we’re supposed to be. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating the difficulties in assessing a certain ratio and explaining the factors that can influence it. There is no disagreement or argument presented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 90.
 MR. TARULLO.  Michael, can you disaggregate the private nonfinancial sector credit-to-GDP ratio between households and nonfinancial business.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement or contention in this passage. The use of the word "disaggregate" implies that there may be differing views or interpretations on how to separate or categorize the private nonfinancial sector credit-to-GDP ratio between households and nonfinancial business.


Passage number 91.
 MR. KILEY.  We do, and that is in the QS report; I probably won’t be able to find the page.  It’s close to but after page 169.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of fact about the QS report and finding a specific page in it.


Passage number 92.
 MR. TARULLO.  Just before I stopped reading. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Even the page numbers have standard errors.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 93.
 MR. TARULLO.  That’s okay.  We can talk at the break if you want.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Tarullo is just offering to have a conversation with the other person during the break.


Passage number 94.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Corporate America has taken up their leverage ratio on purpose because they view that there is a sweet spot in terms of credit quality.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage states a fact about Corporate America's actions without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 95.
 MR. TARULLO.  That’s exactly what I was wondering because my impression was that if you extended the trend line for household leverage that ran from 1975 to 2000, we are right now right about where that trend line would have taken you, but it was in 2001 that that line shot up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Tarullo, is expressing his impression and seeking clarification on a specific topic related to household leverage.


Passage number 96.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Maybe Jeremy has the answer.  What’s the average rating for the corporate credit today compared with 30 years ago. It’s got to be a little lower.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing uncertainty and seeking Jeremy's opinion or knowledge to answer a question about the average rating for corporate credit.


Passage number 97.
 MR. TARULLO. That’s why I was asking the question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Tarullo, is simply explaining the reason for his question.


Passage number 98.
 MR. KILEY.  So there was the danger of looking at a table of contents too quickly.  It’s on page 153 of the QS report.  So it’s actually before page 169.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply providing information and clarifying the location of a table of contents in the QS report.


Passage number 99.
 MR. TARULLO.  Didn’t get to that either.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage as it simply states that Mr. Tarullo didn't get to a certain topic.


Passage number 100.
   MR. KILEY.  You certainly see a much stronger trend in the household sector over the entire period and over the sample you talked about than you do for businesses.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about the trend in the household sector versus the business sector.


Passage number 101.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Michael Kiley, on the house price overvaluation, you tell us that you’re looking at a metric that is based on the long-run relationship between house prices and rent.  What is the long-run relationship between house prices and rent.  How do you do that; how have we constructed the long term.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage consists of a question and a response, which do not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 102.
 MR. KILEY.  Maybe I’ll defer to Josh because he’s really the expert on this subject.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Kiley, is deferring to Josh's expertise on a subject, indicating that there is agreement and respect for Josh's knowledge in the topic being discussed.


Passage number 103.
 MR. GALLIN.  Okay.  Basically the way it works is we take a regression of the rent– price ratio on a time trend and on things like an estimate of the current interest rate to remove their effects; there are various ways of doing it, but that’s the basic idea.  Sometimes we include a change in the interest rate as well—just sort of a kitchen-sink version of this analysis.  And, over time, what we’re using is rents from the CPI, rents for tenants; there is an owners’ equivalent rent as well, but they basically move roughly in line with each other over long periods of time.  The reason we use the tenants’ rent is because that series has a longer history, and we can actually estimate the model over a longer period of time. MS. RASKIN.  So do you know offhand what that period of time is.  How far back in time do those series go.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is explaining the process of regression analysis and the use of different data series.


Passage number 104.
 MR. GALLIN. Late 1970s—1975, 1977, something like that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is simply stating some approximate dates from the late 1970s without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 105.
 MR. WILCOX.  The first quarter of 1975.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The passage simply mentions the time period "the first quarter of 1975" without expressing any conflicting views or arguments.


Passage number 106.
 MR. GALLIN.  If you were actually to have the long-run version, what you would see in the middle-right panel of exhibit 1 would be that there was an increase both in the relationship and the deviation from trend in the late 1970s.  House prices were relatively high in the late 1970s.  The way they got back down to trend was largely by sort of getting eroded by inflation— of course, in that time period, inflation was a lot higher. Then you can see the other house price boom was in the late 1980s, and again, in that case, house prices came back into line at the national level, but more through just a long period of not rising while rents increased. Now, there were some cities like L.A. and Boston in the late 1980s and mid-1980s that saw big price declines. The big difference in this episode, as you can see on the chart, is that house prices got much further out of line with rents than they had in the historical period, and obviously this time the correction did not occur through stagnation in house prices and rise in rents:  It occurred, as you know, through plummeting house prices. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. In a minute, we can take a break for lunch, but when we come back, there will be the opportunity for participants to comment on financial stability issues. If anyone has any further thoughts on financial stability, that would be the opportunity to do that.  And then we will go to the economic go-round.  Forty minutes for lunch, say.  Come back at 1:55 p.m..  Thank you. MS. DANKER.  I just also wanted to mention that we’ll be distributing during lunch a revised version of the statements, where the first paragraph of alternatives B and C is changed just a little bit to take account of the new employment data. [Lunch recess] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay, why don’t we recommence.  At this point we have an opportunity for participants to comment on financial stability issues, and I have President Rosengren and Vice Chairman Dudley on my list.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a discussion about historical trends in house prices and the correction that occurred in the late 1980s. The mention of taking a break for lunch and distributing revised statements does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 107.
MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I very rarely have an opportunity to say good things in the financial stability go-round, so when there is good news, I think it is worth talking about.  And from my perspective, the actions that the FSOC took related to money market funds actually have had a more positive effect than I might have expected. Officials at some of the money market funds are now discussing floating-rate NAVs.  Some of the SEC commissioners are, at least publicly, saying that they now may support additional action, including floating-rate NAVs. I think that’s a really big move from where we were just last September, and that’s despite the fact that Mary Schapiro has announced that she’s leaving the SEC. Floating-rate NAVs would be a significant improvement over the current situation, where money market funds promise fixed NAVs while holding no capital and taking credit risk.  A floating NAV will make clear that prices can fluctuate and that investors need to consider the potential for fluctuations before investing in a money market fund.  I would note that even with a floating NAV, there are still run risks at money market funds.  Many assets of prime money market funds do not trade or trade very infrequently and include credit risk.  In addition, amortized cost accounting can obscure the value of assets.  Given that positions are generally not known until the end of each month, there’s still the potential for window dressing, which may raise suspicion among investors in a crisis that positions may have changed since the most recent public disclosure.  This uncertainty raises the issue of whether pricing of these products will be sufficiently sticky, that investors will run from funds with credit risk not fully reflected in the pricing, potentially causing fire sale prices and leaving the remaining investors with large losses. As a result, we should be open to options in addition to the floating NAV that might address the risk of runs at money market funds.  But I would say that the developments, while we’re far fromthe end, are a substantial improvement over where we were, and I’m greatly heartened.  It’s a positive sign that the FSOC is initiating actions in a way that looks like it is changing behavior.  So kudos to the Chairman and the FSOC process.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their positive opinion about the actions taken by the FSOC related to money market funds. They acknowledge that there are still risks and uncertainties, but overall they are pleased with the progress.


Passage number 108.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Here, here. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The phrase "Here, here." is a term used to express agreement or approval, and "Thank you" indicates gratitude. This passage does not contain any signs of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 109.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, can we also give kudos to Eric because all of us have received letters personally attacking him.  I kind of feel like that Far Side cartoon with the two deer standing next to each other.  One has got a big target on his chest, and he’s going like this [pointing]. [Laughter]  Seriously, President Rosengren has suffered the slings and arrows of standing on principle, and I think we ought to thank him. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Here, here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. The speaker is expressing gratitude and support for President Rosengren, acknowledging the personal attacks he has received, and suggesting that he should be appreciated for his principled stance.


Passage number 110.
 MR. FISHER.  Good job. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "Good job" from Mr. Fisher indicates satisfaction or approval, but there is no opposing viewpoint or conflict present.


Passage number 111.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Well, we still need one more commissioner.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement suggests a need for an additional commissioner, but it does not involve any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 112.
 MR. KOCOHERLAKOTA. Let’s really put him in the target.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is suggesting an action, but it does not imply any disagreement or argument.


Passage number 113.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  We’re not quite there yet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The phrase "We're not quite there yet" does not indicate contention or disagreement. It simply implies that a certain goal or outcome has not been fully achieved or reached yet.


Passage number 114.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Yes, we’re not there yet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. "Yes, we're not there yet" is a statement agreeing with a previous statement or acknowledging a current situation.


Passage number 115.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  A few thoughts on Europe.  I’m generally pretty close to where Steve is.  I think there are two pieces of good news.  The ECB’s OMT program promising secondary-market purchases for Spain and Italy if they enter into a formal adjustment program has been effective in settling down sovereign debt markets.  And I think that has been important because it kept the bad equilibrium at bay—the equilibrium where debt-to-risk costs go up, which then feed back into bad fiscal performance, which leads to even higher debt service costs.That’s a good development.  Second, I think Germany has made a very conscious decision that it doesn’t want to kick Greece out of the EU, at least through the October 2013 German elections.  I think that’s important because if Greece isn’t going to get kicked out, then no one else is going to get kicked out in the interim because everybody else looks quite a bit better than Greece.  So the risk of a contagion event in Europe, or an expectation that other countries might be forced to exit, is very much reduced at the current time. And that’s important because it buys time for fiscal consolidation, structural reform, and pan-European institution building to actually proceed. In the near term, I am sort of where Steve is.  I don’t think that Europe is likely to be a source of big instability over the near term.  That’s the good news.  The bad news is that it’s not obvious to me, at least, that the time that they’ve bought themselves is actually going to be spent wisely or that the programs of fiscal austerity are going to soon generate a more favorable set of outcomes in terms of macroeconomic performance and sustainable debt-to-GDP trajectories. Of course, without better performance the political support for austerity may not prove sustainable, and we’re already seeing some backsliding in the case of Italy.  Also, I think that the reduction in market pressure is leading to backsliding in terms of pan-European institution building, which I think is absolutely essential for this to work in the longer run.  The European Deposit Insurance System now seems pretty much off the table completely, and the Europeans are having great difficulty reaching agreement on what the scope of an ECB-led pan-European bank regulator would be.  So bottom line for me is that the situation is a long way from being fixed, so I’m not really optimistic about the longer term, but it’s probably not going to go off the rails in the near future, which I guess is an improvement relative to where we’ve been for most of the last couple of years. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President George.  MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to make a brief observation about the financial stability discussion.  First, I want to say that I have found the reports themselves and the discussion around the table very helpful and that it is important to keep thinking about where this tipping point is, if there is one, around risk.  I went back and looked at some of the discussion in the 2006 transcripts around housing.  And I think about my own experiences as a supervisor, as we saw commercial real estate concentrations growing in smaller banks, and how challenging it is to know where you are in that risk spectrum when it’s time to be worried. Like President Pianalto, I’m hearing more concerns in my region, whether it is people trying to manage funds or looking at banks taking on interest rate risk.  Again, I think supervisors are reacting to other things, but I’m just reminded that I think this discussion will be helpful, and we have to continue to press for where we are in that risk spectrum.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Anyone else on financial stability. [No response] If not, we’re ready for our economic go-round, and I have President Williams, fresh back from India.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mainly a discussion about the current state of Europe and the potential risks and challenges it faces.


Passage number 116.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  It is a bit daunting to be attempting to forecast the economy at a time when government spending, government tax rates, and the potential for hitting the debt ceiling all could potentially alter the economic landscape quite dramatically in the short term. This elevated period of policy uncertainty is likely acting as a significant headwind to economic activity. Hence, while monetary policy is trying to reduce the cost of credit to accelerate spending decisions of households and firms, the fiscal policy uncertainty is causing both households and firms to defer decisions.  While it is unfortunate these policies are not working in tandem, it is not a reason for us to stay on the sidelines.  It is quite important that our actions continue to provide significant support for sectors such as housing and autos to partly offset these headwinds and bolster the economy through this fragile period. My forecast assumes that fiscal policy muddles through without causing a sharp retrenchment at the beginning of next year and that fiscal policymakers do not postpone the most important decisions, as doing so would, in turn, lead to a longer period of deferred household and firm decisions.  My outlook puts a fair amount of weight on these headwinds that are induced by policy paralysis, so that my view of the economy absent these headwinds would be a bit more positive than that of the Tealbook.  That does not imply that I see significant underlying strength in the economy, because I am also assuming more monetary policy accommodation than in the Tealbook.  Specifically, I assume that we continue significant asset purchases until the unemployment rate falls to 7¼ percent, which under the assumption of a benign end of the fiscal cliff is expected to occur shortly after the end of 2013 in my forecast.  I expect economic growth to gradually gain traction over the second half of 2013 and through 2014, with liftoff in short-term rates occurring in the middle of 2015.  I expect that we will continue to undershoot our 2 percent PCE inflation target throughout this period. My forecast anticipates a strengthening in the housing sector and related consumer durable purchases, which will continue to be a source of economic support over the forecast period, in part as a result of our asset purchases.  Most housing indicators have been improving, and housing prices have been rising gradually. One week ago, the New York and Boston Reserve Banks held a joint conference on determinants of the primary–secondary mortgage spread.  I highly commend the white paper from the conference, which provides some interesting perspective on why that spread has widened. Panelists at the conference highlighted the role of capacity constraints, which reflects reduced participation in the mortgage market by a number of large banks, in part due to their assessment that mortgage origination is now less profitable due to increased legal risks and the risks from the GSEs’ putback policies.  Despite these impediments, there seemed to be a consensus that our actions in September had a meaningful impact on mortgage rates of a bit less than 25 basis points. My staff has also been doing some work looking at prepayment activity in the mortgage market, which has an effect on how quickly our mortgage portfolio might decline for reasons other than refinancing.  Using the PSID data, they examined how often people move because of job change, upsizing, increased family size, or young adults starting new households.  They found that, on average, 4½ percent of homeowners move to another home in a given year.  Considering how many of these moves involve prepaying a mortgage, they calculate that between 12 and 16 percent of mortgages will prepay over five years because of the so-called own-to-own moves.  In addition, they find another 2 percent of prepayments that involve own-to-rent moves over a five-year period.  Thus, one of the advantages of a larger mortgage portfolio is that many mortgages will naturally be extinguished as people switch homes, regardless of the decline in refinances if rates rise. Looking forward to a time when we normalize our balance sheet, we may want to consider arguments for keeping longer-term assets on our balance sheet, including mortgages.  I can imagine that for either financial stability or macrostability goals, we might want to continue to hold some mortgages and longer-duration Treasuries so that we have the ability to tighten as well as ease specific market conditions or the macroeconomy by selling or buying long-duration assets.  This topic may well be worth considering at a future meeting. In terms of labor markets, the Friday report was better than expected but worse than needed.  Relative to the start of the year, my GDP forecast has unfortunately been relatively close.  But on the bright side, the unemployment rate is now lower than I had anticipated.  My earlier SEP submissions anticipated unemployment rates remaining above 8 percent this year, with only a slight decline by the end of 2013.  With the unemployment rate at 7.7 percent in November, it looks like I was too pessimistic.  One factor I did not sufficiently consider was how much exits from the labor force would contribute to a declining unemployment rate.  In part, that may be because I did not anticipate how quickly states would stop providing the Emergency Unemployment Compensation.  With 31 states losing their eligibility for these benefits between January and August of this year, research at the Boston Fed suggests that some of the decline in the labor force reflects recipients dropping out of the labor force when these benefits are not available. In summary, I see some positive growth in areas most strongly affected by accommodative policy, with weak growth in those areas most strongly affected by the fiscal uncertainty.  While my forecast assumes that as fiscal concerns abate we will see more of the underlying strength of the economy, I view the actions we have taken to date to be one reason we have performed better than many other developed countries.  As we will discuss more tomorrow, the economic recovery has depended on that support, so now would not be the time to reduce that support.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of one person's forecast and perspective on the economy.


Passage number 117.
   MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Before I relate anecdotal input from my District, I will mention that my baseline outlook for the medium term has not changed significantly from the last meeting or my September SEP. The incoming data have made me mark down a little my economic growth assumption for this quarter and, as a consequence, the full year 2012 as well as the early quarters of 2013.  Those changes are modest, and I don’t view the basic growth outlook to have changed.  I am putting emphasis on this view that little in the outlook has changed since September and October because in the policy round, I will push the argument that the policy decisions I expect we will make at this meeting should be thought of as, and communicated as, a continuation of appropriate policy, not new stimulus. Now let me turn to some color commentary from my District.  In spite of a fixation on the immediate fiscal-cliff-related risks and a continued lack of near-term visibility, we detected an unexpected rise in optimism among our business contacts over the past month.  I think this positive sentiment is worth noting, but I don’t see it as translating yet into concrete plans to expand business operations and grow payrolls.  With some exceptions, businesses remain very cautious in their spending.  The unusual circumstances at this juncture seem to have elicited a bimodal approach to business planning.  One of our directors, the CFO of the country’s second-largest retailer, ordered her budgeting team to put down their pencils—I love that image—until there is some clarity about the outcome of fiscal negotiations.  Others, depending on industry, seem to be looking through the possible near-term effects of going over the cliff.  Moreover, the front-of-mind uncertainties constraining businesses are not limited to fiscal negotiations.  We heard a repeat of cost-related concerns, especially health care. At the same time, a number of our contacts believe there is some amount of pent-up demand on the part of   businesses and consumers resulting from deferred spending, and that this demand could be unleashed by removal of fiscal uncertainties. On prices, according to our most recent business inflation expectations survey, the year-ahead inflation expectations of business contacts in the Southeast rose a little bit, to a little over 2 percent in November, up from 1.8 percent in October. I don’t view this uptick as material, nor do I get any sense of growing anticipation of wage pressures.  Even though we hear of pretty significant labor shortages in some sectors, firms seem to be very hesitant to pay up for labor and to assume higher total payroll expenses. Turning to the balance of risks, I see the GDP growth risks, on balance, as weighted to the downside.  Given the shock potential of a failure of federal fiscal negotiations, I see unemployment risks weighted to the upside, and I see inflation risks as broadly balanced.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing their outlook and observations on the economy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 118.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The economic setting for this meeting is not any better than what we faced the last few meetings.  Arguably, it’s a little worse.  Second-half GDP growth seems to be around 2 percent as the familiar host of uncertainties and headwinds continue to take their toll on the economy, as we’ve already heard around the table.  Businesses have continued hiring at a modest pace in spite of large fiscal uncertainties, and that seems like a plus, but they are doing so without meaningful capacity expansion.  BFI has been quite weak, and the forward indicators and anecdotal reports from my business contacts don’t suggest a change in this anytime soon. In addition, consumption has been softer than expected.  Real income growth seems weaker, and the headwinds from household deleveraging continue to be strong. On the international front, the recent news makes it even clearer that Europe is in recession.  The ECB has now projected a contraction for 2013, and the weakness is not limited to the peripheral countries.  More of my business contacts with exposure to Germany are finally thinking there will be a downturn there as well.  In China, growth has decelerated.  One of my largest manufacturing contacts with factories in China told us that on a recent visit he made there 100 percent of his business partners reported what he called positive stories regarding new   economic initiatives throughout China.  He said that in the past, such a positive consensus had been a good predictor of a strengthening in the Chinese economy.  So this information seems to corroborate the better incoming data on China that were discussed earlier. Putting all of this together, my national outlook is a bit weaker than it was in our September SEP submission.  Our near-term forecast for economic growth is similar to the Tealbook, and those are pretty disappointing numbers.  It also seems clear to me that the labor market reports since the October FOMC meeting do not meet any benchmark for a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook.  We’re a long way from the six months or so of job gains around 200,000 that I would want to see as a condition for concluding our open-ended asset purchases.  We are also not close to seeing a GDP growth path comfortably ensconced above potential growth, another reasonable condition for ending the program.  In our forecast, we get to this more favorable growth path for output and employment sometime in the latter part of 2013.  Indeed, by then we’re expecting stronger economic growth than in the Tealbook.  But this growth is premised on more-accommodative monetary policy.  This policy includes asset purchases through the end of next year and the additional stimulus I think we would get by adopting numerical thresholds into our forward guidance and delivering greater clarity regarding our future intentions.  In my opinion, we need this additional accommodation.  We have a weak forecast with continuing downside risks. Now, just as an aside, I’ve heard many business commentaries, like those President Fisher, President Lacker, and others were mentioning, about how businesses are sort of running on idle, keeping things on hold.  And as I listen, I can’t keep from thinking that this situation must be symptomatic of the fact that demand is very low in our economy.  I mean, it almost reminds me of—maybe there isn’t a Monty Python skit of this sort—a scene where there are a bunch of racers running on a track:  They’re at the starting line; the starting gun is fired; but there’s confusion at the outset, and nobody takes off.  They start arguing among themselves.  They’re on idle; they’re not doing anything.  Eventually somebody, though, decides that the gun has gone off, and they start running.  And after a while people think, “Wait.  There are people out there.  I have to catch up.” I just don’t quite understand how businesses can continue to be idle if their competitors are running away from them, which would be the case if demand picked up. But while demand is still low, you can have these types of stories and still be quite profitable.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker presents a weaker economic outlook and argues for additional monetary policy accommodation, while also questioning why businesses are not taking advantage of low demand. This suggests a disagreement or difference of opinion on the current state of the economy and the appropriate response.


Passage number 119.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have just a few remarks on the economic outlook.  In the Eighth District economy, we continue to expand at a modest pace, with unemployment below the national average on a Districtwide basis.  During the autumn, there has  been something of a disconnection between relatively upbeat households and relatively downbeat businesses.  I’ve been increasingly concerned that businesses are holding back planning for three reasons:  one, the global slowdown; two, mixed reports on the strength of the U.S. economy; and three, angst about the future policy environment in the United States.  A clear, credible deal on the U.S. fiscal situation would go a long way to reducing this angst, but it is unclear at this point whether such a deal will be made.  Some of the most recent anecdotal information from the District’s transportation sector seems to indicate positive momentum during the holiday season up to now.  I continue to be concerned about the global growth situation.  Anecdotal information from large District firms with operations in China seems to indicate, on balance, continuing slowdown there—that’s a little distinct from earlier reports here—perhaps tied to the deeper-than-expected recession in Europe.  Japan has moved back into recession as well. On the plus side, I’ve been impressed by the relative calm in the euro zone during the second half of 2012.  I was expecting a volatile period during the fall.  Instead, the situation in Greece has been papered over, at least for now. In addition, the ECB’s threatened intervention through the OMT program has generally managed to put substantial downward pressure on Spanish and Italian yields.  The ability of Spain to delay a request for aid and, therefore, to delay the actual implementation of the ECB’s OMT program has also surprised me.  My view has been that once such a request is made, the ECB may well come under heavy pressure, and volatility in European and global financial markets may return with a vengeance.  However, I have now revised down my probability that Spain will be forced to request aid, at least in the near term, such as over the next few months.A calmer Europe and a U.S. fiscal deal, therefore, seem to point to some upside potential for the United States.  In addition, some of the headwinds, especially in housing, that have been a drag on the U.S. economy seem to be dissipating.  Our own monetary policy is exceptionally accommodative. On balance, then, I’m relatively optimistic about U.S. growth prospects in 2013. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker does not present any contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 120.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Once again, many of my observations about the outlook have been eloquently exposited by others around the table, so I’ll be brief in the hope that I can get away with being a little bit more long-winded tomorrow. In terms of a modal forecast, I may be just a touch more optimistic than the Tealbook.  I had forecast unemployment to be about 7.4 or 7.5 percent at the end of 2013 versus the 7.8 percent figure in the Tealbook.  The story I would tell is that I expect things, as it sounds like many others do, to be slow over the first half of 2013.  And then with some luck, as the uncertainty from the fiscal cliff dissipates, or at least as the worst case outcomes are taken off the table, the underlying positives—again, that many people have mentioned in housing and autos, in credit availability, and in the balance sheets of nonfinancial firms—begin to assert themselves.  Businesses get up off the sidelines and step up a bit on hiring and investment spending.  So even with the remaining fiscal drag in late 2013 and going into 2014, I would expect economic growth to move up into something like the 3 percent range, which would start to make a dent in unemployment. But really the only point I’d like to make here is that this scenario, even if it’s the most likely case, is not the one that I think is the most relevant for us in terms of thinking about the policy choices that we’re actually facing at the moment.  I think the scenario we need to be visualizing and wrestling with, and it’s one that strikes me as only a little bit less likely, is the Groundhog Day scenario.  It’s where we wake up six months from now, and we wake up again a year from now, and in each case, unemployment is not 7.5 percent and we’re not really seeing any clear signs of progress.  Rather it is still in the 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent neighborhood, and, as best as we can tell, six months from now and a year from now, the forecast six months further out looks like it’s more of the same. Moreover, in the scenario I have in mind, it’s not due to any obvious terrible shocks that we can point to, but just due to some muddled mix of small disappointments.  And as Governor Yellen suggested, these kinds of disappointments would be just enough to make inferences about efficacy kind of tricky.  There’s this little bit of background noise, and we haven’t really learned that much about efficacy from the data over the last few years.  So it would be a lot to expect that we would learn much more about it in the next 12 months.  What would those disappointments be. Perhaps, following on the somewhat disappointing news about consumer sentiment we saw in Friday’s release, there will be some lingering pessimism.  Even if there’s somewhat of a resolution of the fiscal cliff, people will feel incompletely satisfied by that.  Or as I think both President Williams and Vice Chairman Dudley alluded to, you could imagine that even with a reasonable resolution, there’s going to be some fiscal drag, and maybe the fiscal multipliers associated with that are going to be a little bit higher than we anticipated, or Europe will be a little bit weaker, or something along those lines. Again, the situation I have in mind is one where it’s the end of 2013, and we can’t really argue by any reasonable metric that there has been meaningful progress in the labor market outlook, much less the actual state of the labor market. And to the extent that the Tealbook is calling for 7.8 percent as the modal outcome at that point, I think that the scenario I’m sketching is maybe a fraction of a standard deviation on the pessimistic side.  So as I said, I think this case is the one we really need to be wrestling with, and at some level, the whole framing of our open-ended asset purchase strategy, to me, hangs on two questions:  What do we want to be doing a year from now, if we are in this scenario.  And, second, once we figure that out, how do we solve backward from that point and explain it to markets in a coherent and time-consistent fashion.  I hope that we’ll spend some time on that tomorrow.  Thank you.   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is sharing their own forecast and expressing their thoughts on the most relevant scenario and policy choices.


Passage number 121.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have two questions.  One, why do you think the “initially” would be taken as one-sided rather than two-sided.  I mean, in the context of the fiscal cliff being resolved in a good way or a bad way, you could imagine it being taken more symmetrically.  I’m just not sure how the market would take it.  And second, in the language that’s in brackets in B, “it sees a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market, the asset purchase program ends”—where the additional conditions are put in—how do you think the market would interpret the motivation for putting that in. Normally when we change things, we change things for a reason.  So I’m just curious what your thought is in terms of what people would draw from that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a series of questions seeking clarification and opinions, but there is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 122.
 MR. ENGLISH. On “initially,” I agree, it could be taken either way.  I guess I thought it would be most likely seen as a way of softening the commitment, and, therefore, the direction  might be seen as more likely to be down than up. But I agree that, in part, it just kind of loosens things up and allows for more flexibility, which may be attractive to the Committee. On the extra words in alternative B, paragraph 5, toward the end of the first sentence, the idea there was to spell out a little bit the timing of the purchases versus when the funds rate would be increased.  Because there is a risk that there will be some confusion about the conditions for ending purchases versus the conditions for raising the federal funds rate, those extra words were intended to make it a bit clearer that the Committee will keep monetary policy accommodative for a considerable time after it stops purchasing.  So it spells that out:  “a considerable time after it sees a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market, the asset purchase program ends, and the economic recovery strengthens.” It’s just a way of putting some daylight between the guidance for the purchases and the guidance for the federal funds rate, which we thought some on the Committee might find useful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with another person's perspective and explaining their own reasoning behind certain choices.


Passage number 123.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So what inference would you think market participants would draw from that insertion—a longer period of time between asset purchases ending and interest rates rising.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a question asking the reader to speculate on market participants' inference based on a given scenario.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 124.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The use of the word "yes" indicates that there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 125.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  They’re not both at 6½.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not mention any disagreement or contention between individuals. It simply presents a statement made by Mr. Rosengren.


Passage number 126.
 MR. POTTER.  I think it will depend on where they are.  If it’s the person who thinks we’re still going to be purchasing assets when we raise rates, it might lead them to change their mind.  And you know, in the distribution we have some quite short gaps between the ends of asset purchases and raising rates.  So this would seem to show some confidence that you would not be raising rates for maybe three or four quarters at least; is that right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is providing their own analysis and explanation, without any contradiction or opposition from others.


Passage number 127.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Something like that, yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response "Something like that, yes" suggests agreement or affirmation with the previous statement.


Passage number 128.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a comment and a question.  My comment is that I think we could shorten the statement greatly by making more use of the Chairman’s ex post optimality condition.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Only if you check the math.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply making a comment and asking a question.


Passage number 129.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  My question is about the penultimate sentence of paragraph 5 in alternative B.  This sentence says, “In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider,” and so on.  I didn’t know, and I suspect other readers will be confused, too:  Is that sentence intended to be describing the Committee’s behavior after the thresholds are hit, or is it intended to describe the Committee’s behavior potentially before the thresholds are hit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification about the intended meaning of a sentence in the mentioned paragraph.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 130.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think it’s potentially both.  It’s saying that rather than just looking at these two variables that we just talked about, unemployment and inflation, we’ll be looking at a bunch of stuff and reacting to a bunch of stuff, and I think potentially that could cut either way.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker suggests that the idea of considering multiple variables and reacting to them could have both positive and negative consequences, indicating some disagreement or uncertainty.


Passage number 131.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a dialogue between two individuals and does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 132.
 MR. FISHER.  Just one small point, although I’m confused by it:  In paragraph 2, we talk about a medium-term 2 percent inflation objective; yet in paragraph 5, we talk about a longer-run goal of inflation of 2 percent.  Is it longer run or medium run.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher points out a contradiction between paragraph 2 and paragraph 5 regarding the time frame for the inflation objective. The confusion arises from the use of different terms, "medium-term" in paragraph 2 and "longer-run" in paragraph 5, to describe the same inflation goal of 2 percent.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 133.
 MR. ENGLISH. The sentence in paragraph 2 is saying, if you wanted to really spell it out, that inflation over the medium term is likely to run at or below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run objective for inflation.  So it’s using 2 percent, the longer-run objective, as a benchmark and saying that in the medium term, which is presumably sooner, you’re expecting  the inflation rate to be at or below that 2 percent figure.  So I think there actually is a distinction being made between a forecast over the medium run in paragraph 2 and the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. 

The passage is analyzing the statement in paragraph 2 and suggesting that there is a distinction between the forecast for medium-term inflation and the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. The speaker argues that the sentence is indicating that in the medium term, the inflation rate will be at or below 2 percent, implying that the longer-run objective may be higher than 2 percent. This interpretation contradicts the assumption that the longer-run objective is 2 percent, suggesting disagreement or contention.


Passage number 134.
 MR. FISHER.  I raise that question because I worry that it could create some confusion.  And then we talk about “no more than ½ percentage point above the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored.” What I worry about is that we’re shifting a little bit here, and particularly when we introduce the ½ percentage point above the longer-term goal. A lot of this, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me, depends on your press conference.  You’ve already drafted that; it has been vetted.  Some of us haven’t had the privilege of seeing those drafts. I’m assuming—just to cut to the chase here—that it must be geared toward an alternative, and I would assume that it must be geared toward a variation of this alternative.  And if we go down this path, we have to be very, very careful that it be well articulated.  The statement itself isn’t sufficient, even though we try, by adding these sentences that other people have mentioned.  To me this whole thing depends on how you explain it at the press conference, and we got a very good insight into that by this exercise you put us through earlier. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I can tell you what I say about it.  I describe it, and then I say monetary policy, however, is not on autopilot.  And I make three points: The first is that—I don’t say it exactly this way—these are thresholds, not triggers; in other words, it is an “at least” condition, not an absolute trigger.  Second, I say that as we consider unemployment in this condition, we’ll want to comfort ourselves that the decline in unemployment is associated with higher payrolls, hours, et cetera, as opposed to a weakening of the labor market—withdrawal, participation declines, and so on.  And then the third part is about the fact that we’re looking at   the projection of inflation, which means that we’ll have to make judgments about where inflation is likely to be, assuming we continue the low-rate policy.  Moreover, I would add that in my general discussion of efficacy and cost, which is more directed toward the LSAPs than to the thresholds, I mention that financial developments are in the list here because one of those costs obviously is financial stability concerns.  So I think I’m more explicit about what we’d be looking at and why there isn’t a simple mechanical formula.  That’s the thinking.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage shows the speaker expressing concern and suggesting alternatives or additional points to consider, but there is no direct disagreement or contention between the speaker and others.


Passage number 135.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Certainly. President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation:
In the given passage, Mr. Fisher is expressing gratitude and agreement with President Bullard. There is no evidence of contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 136.
 MR. BULLARD.  I’m looking at the first figure on page 1 of the handout, the dealer survey versus alternative A, alternative B, and alternative C.  Alternative B is sitting up here, and all the dots are down to the right and south.  It’s making me a little nervous that market expectations are a fair amount off from where we are as a Committee or what we’re thinking of.  Is that how you would interpret this graph, or are you not as concerned about that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard expresses his concern about market expectations being different from the Committee's thinking, indicating a disagreement or contention between the two.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 137.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think that’s correct for what this graph shows, but there was a graph in Simon’s briefing earlier today that looked at the average probability distribution of the dealers’ assessments of where the balance sheet is going to come out in 2014 when the purchases are done.  The distribution there is very wide, all the way from less than $2.5 trillion to more than $5 trillion, with a lot of weight on figures that would be consistent with either alternative B or alternative A. As I tried to say at the end of my discussion of this first exhibit, there’s a lot of uncertainty in the market participants’ minds about where the purchases are going to end up.  The top of this exhibit shows their point forecast, but around that is a very wide confidence interval, and I think that means that they will be more likely to adjust what their expectations are in response to incoming information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates that there is uncertainty and disagreement among market participants about where the balance sheet is going to end up. This is evident from the wide probability distribution and the mention of a wide confidence interval, suggesting that different participants have different expectations and may adjust their opinions in response to new information.


Passage number 138.
   MR. POTTER. We haven’t seen that yet because the outlook really hasn’t changed that much.  If the outlook improved a lot, similar to the handout, then if they didn’t move their expectation back in, that would suggest they have a different view of what the reaction function is or the cost-benefits.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is simply explaining that the outlook hasn't changed much and discussing a hypothetical scenario.


Passage number 139.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that Mr. English agrees with Governor Tarullo.


Passage number 140.
 MR. TARULLO.  Bill’s answers to some previous questions have answered my question, which has accordingly morphed into a comment, which accordingly belongs tomorrow.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’ll reread the transcript.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 141.
 MR. POWELL.  I am following up on Jim’s question.  If the market were to read the first bullet point in the lower-left corner of page 1—“Eight of you indicated that your balance sheet projections did not differ materially from staff’s”—what would that do to the mass of the dealer expectations distribution that Simon talked about.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking a hypothetical question and seeking clarification.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 142.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think they’d actually have to read all three of those bullet points.  That eight of you were reasonably comfortable with what the staff was writing down; that’s alternative B.  Seven of you felt there should be more purchases than that, and four of you less.  Given that, I think their distribution would move down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage mentions that there were differing opinions among the group, with some feeling there should be more purchases and some feeling there should be less. This indicates disagreement and contention.


Passage number 143.
 MR. POTTER.  They would also be very interested who the seven were as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that someone (Mr. Potter) would be interested to know who the seven people were, without expressing any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 144.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes, of course.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a simple affirmation or agreement between two parties.


Passage number 145.
 MR. POWELL.  Generally, though, it could move the distribution to the left.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing a general statement about how something could potentially cause a shift in the distribution to the left.


Passage number 146.
  MR. POTTER.  If they saw that the unemployment rate forecasts that were associated with this alternative were a little bit higher, that would be confusing to them because, as Bill said, they have slightly lower unemployment rates than the forecast that we have. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you recall what their unemployment rate for the fourth quarter of 2013 is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 147.
 MR. POTTER. I have it; let me see if I can find it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. Well, while you’re looking, President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply describes Mr. Potter looking for something while President Bullard waits.


Passage number 148.
 MR. ENGLISH.  It would be about 7½ percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating a percentage.


Passage number 149.
 MR. BULLARD.  So, Bill, it seems to me like one of the things that is happening is that we may give more guidance on the policy rates, but we’re not giving a similar guidance on the balance sheet, or should I reread alternative B as somehow giving that kind of guidance. Because what we have in mind is:  You’re going to end one program, then you’re going to continue for a while, and then you’re going to end the other.  What is it about our statement that’s meant to give that sort of impression.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is seeking clarification on the statement and asking for further information.


Passage number 150.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Sorry.  Do you mean on the timing or on the size of the purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 151.
 MR. BULLARD.  I mean, what I’m sensing around the table is we have in mind that something goes on for about nine months or a year on the balance sheet and goes on longer than that with the policy rate, but I’m not sure that’s being conveyed out there to the market, and that’s why we have this kind of a picture in the graph.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 152.
 MR. ENGLISH. That sense of the relative timing of purchases versus the funds rate is conveyed qualitatively in the words at the very top of page 7 of the handout that Vice Chairman Dudley asked about a few minutes ago.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply referring to a specific section of the handout that Vice Chairman Dudley asked about.


Passage number 153.
 MR. BULLARD. “The asset purchase program ends,” at that point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement expressed in this passage. It is a statement made by Mr. Bullard about the end of the asset purchase program.


Passage number 154.
MR. LACKER.  Paragraph 4.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage quoted is insufficient to determine whether there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 155.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Did you find the number.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is just a simple response to a question.


Passage number 156.
 MR. POTTER. It’s 7.5 percent.  They moved down from 7.6 to 7.5 percent.  So they’re at the lower end of the central tendency. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Bill, will this information about what all the participants thought about the balance sheet or the size of the program be in the minutes in the discussion of the SEP.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing information about the participants' thoughts on the balance sheet and the size of the program.


Passage number 157.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Normally we have a paragraph in the SEP write-up that goes through the information from the SEP on balance sheet expectations, and something like this information, I think, would be there. MS. DUKE. So that paragraph would include this information.  Okay.  Thanks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. English is simply stating that there is usually a paragraph in the SEP write-up that addresses balance sheet expectations, to which Ms. Duke confirms that this information would be included in that paragraph.


Passage number 158.
 MR. POTTER. It was in last time, and they didn’t seem to notice an inconsistency. MS. DUKE.  Well, last time it only said that 11 people expected to start purchases.  It didn’t say anything about the size of the purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. The speakers are simply discussing a previous occurrence and noting a difference in the information provided.


Passage number 159.
 MR. POTTER.  That’s right, but they should be able to do math and work out who those 11 could be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact or opinion about the ability to do math and figure out who the 11 individuals referred to could be.


Passage number 160.
 MR. ENGLISH.  But I actually do think—and I’d be interested if Simon agrees—that they’ll notice this information when it’s in the SEP write-up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no disagreement or contention in the passage. Mr. English expresses his belief and curiosity about whether or not Simon agrees with him.


Passage number 161.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes, they didn’t seem to notice last time. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  How are you going to describe the staff benchmark there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Potter's statement is a response to a previous situation, but it does not indicate any argument or disagreement.


Passage number 162.
 MR. TARULLO.  That was my question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 163.
 MR. ENGLISH. Only qualitatively.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply introduces the speaker as Mr. English and states that he will only discuss something in a qualitative manner.


Passage number 164.
  MR. TARULLO.  So seven people think it’s going to be higher than some unspecified benchmark. MS. DUKE.  Or you could say seven people think it’s going to be 750. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents different opinions or possibilities without any clear disagreement or debate.


Passage number 165.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  One of the challenges that President Bullard showed with that figure, I think, is partly the result of the Tealbook being more pessimistic on the unemployment rate than most of the rest of us.  The central tendency is 7.4 to 7.7 percent for 2013, and the Tealbook is at 7.8 percent.  So if you looked at the central tendency of the voters that are voting for this was, my guess is that that dot would be a good bit lower than the dot that you’re showing right now.  I can understand why the dealers are coming up with a different answer, which is that substantial improvement in labor markets doesn’t look like something higher than where we are now.  I think some of the inconsistency is tied to that paragraph 4, and the difference between the Tealbook and some of the rest of our forecasts that are shown in the economic projection.  So they’re not going to see those three dots for A, B, and C, but I do think that some of that disconnection is tied to the differences in both the forecast and people’s reading of paragraph 4. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions for Bill. We obviously will have plenty of time tomorrow morning to continue.  Okay, we will adjourn.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different forecasts and projections.


Passage number 166.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Mr. Chairman. I’m sorry. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple expression of addressing someone and apologizing for a mistake.


Passage number 167.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  I apologize.  I came in late.  Is it possible to make your handout available on SDS. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a request for a handout to be made available.


Passage number 168.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  We’ll reconvene tomorrow morning at 8:30.  Obviously, if you have any changes in your SEP projections, please provide those as soon as possible.  A reception is now available upstairs, followed by dinner.  Thank you. [Meeting recessed]   December 12 Session CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Good morning, everybody.  We’ve had our opening presentation by Mr. English, and so we’re ready to begin our policy go-round.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It consists of administrative information and a statement of readiness for the policy go-round.


Passage number 169.
” MR. LOCKHART.  I suggest either to say the “most recent date-based guidance,” so that there is no confusion as to the two previous date-based guidances, or to say, “The Committee currently views these thresholds as consistent with the mid-2015 forward guidance introduced last September.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: In this passage, Mr. Lockhart is offering a suggestion for clarification, but there is no indication of contention or disagreement. He is simply providing options to avoid confusion or make the statement more explicit. The response from President Lacker is not provided, so there is no evidence of disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 170.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I closely associate myself with the remarks of Vice Chairman Dudley.  His eloquence makes it easy to justify my practice of being succinct. I support alternative B with the language in paragraph 5 that includes thresholds.  The improvement in interest-sensitive sectors is an important counterbalance to the headwinds created by fiscal policy uncertainty.  Given the fragility of the recovery, as well as the practical limits to the size of MBS purchases, it is prudent to continue Treasury purchases of $45 billion as the maturity extension program expires.  Both the Board memo on asset purchases as well as   research done by the Boston research department indicate that this purchase program will provide important support to an economy still experiencing economic growth too slow to get substantial improvement in labor markets.  Such a policy action will also help us reach the inflation target that we stated at the beginning of this year.  In both my forecast and that of the Tealbook, we’ve continued to undershoot our inflation target for the entire forecast horizon.  If one excludes the volatile food and energy sectors, the four-quarter moving average of the change in core PCE has been below 2 percent for four years, and we expect it to remain below our target for another three years. To my eye, it is difficult to consider monetary policy highly accommodative when we undershoot on our inflation and employment targets for an expected seven consecutive years.  Even if we just had one mandate and that was an inflation mandate, I would argue that we should be doing more.  Additional asset purchases are needed to shorten the time we continue to miss on both elements of our mandate. If we do conclude asset purchases are being less efficacious, we should actively seek alternative policies that will more quickly reach our mandate.  We should change our tool, not our goal.  So I don’t agree with the Groundhog Day analogy.  I think that if we find that what we’re doing now is not being efficacious, then we have to search for other ways to try to reach our dual mandate. I strongly support the introduction of thresholds in paragraph 5.  We should calibrate the likely path of our policy on economic outcomes, not on calendar dates or purchase amounts.  This is a particularly good time to announce a communications guideline that serves as an automatic stabilizer so that markets do not overreact to the inevitable fiscal bumps that are likely over the next several months.  The proposed threshold makes clear that we are focused on economic outcomes that are more consistent with our mandate and that we intend to take forcefulactions to shorten the time until we re-attain our inflation and unemployment goals.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing disagreement with the analogy of "Groundhog Day" and is advocating for alternative policies if current ones are deemed ineffective.


Passage number 171.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B with the threshold language in paragraph 5. I support the LSAPs as they are described and the flow quantities in alternative B.  After listening to Vice Chairman Dudley speak so well about the efficacy and the cost of purchases language in the alternative, I think that’s highly appropriate.  I thought your comments yesterday were a good initial framework for our future discussions about that, and I look forward to those discussions and evaluations over the coming year. As I said, I support paragraph 5 on thresholds in the alternative.  It’s artfully crafted to take into account some of the concerns that were raised at previous meetings.  It describes the economic conditions that would prevail after some time is passed, after the recovery has strengthened.  It captures our commitment to the longer-run inflation goal of 2 percent and conveys that a symmetric view of that goal allows a moderate overshooting of 2 percent. Indeed, the ½ percentage point upside threshold on the goal is about the same magnitude as the undershooting of inflation over the next few years currently projected in the Tealbook, and it operationalizes quite well the idea that 2 percent is not a ceiling, but it’s a symmetric goal. The paragraph also notes the wide range of information we will consider to make sure that the unemployment rate is not sending a misleading signal about the economy, and it emphasizes the balanced approach we will take to policy once we begin raising rates.  In other words, paragraph 5 implements many of the important characteristics of an optimal policy path with commitment. I disagree with the contention that we haven’t thought enough about this or seen enough analysis.  In fact, we’ve seen lots of analysis going back to last summer. In 2011 we first saw thresholds analyzed in the context of FRB/US.  And we know that theory indicates that such a path can deliver better outcomes with regard to both the employment and inflation components of our dual mandate— specifically better outcomes than a completely discretionary policy and better than one that adheres to a simple rule that doesn’t account for the extended period in which policy has been constrained by the zero lower bound. I’m optimistic that we can communicate to the public that this is a threshold, not a trigger. All we have to do is talk about it a little bit more, you in your press conference and others around the table.  All of us can help clarify that, and I don’t think anybody has the desire to confuse that.  It’s in the public’s interest to understand it better.  As many people in this room have noted, there are serious drawbacks to using calendar dates to communicate our commitment to keeping rates low for a time after the economy has strengthened. In current circumstances, we want to reinforce the public’s understanding that we will leave policy in its highly accommodative state beyond the point at which, in the absence of the period of zero bound constraint, the economic outlook would typically dictate raising the funds rate.  Importantly, this liftoff point is defined in terms of economic conditions, and because the outlook will change in response to the inevitable arrival of exogenous shocks, things like your g, the date we would expect to reach these conditions will also change over time. In our current statement, we’ve been using the calendar date—and it changes—to convey this deviation from what we would ordinarily do.  That is a pretty indirect way to get across our message.  We can provide much more clarity to the public by making a statement in terms of well-known indicators, like unemployment and inflation, of the economic conditions we’ll need to see before considering raising rates.  Such a statement would also mean that it will be more obvious if we deviate from this marker. I would say that this is helpful discipline for our policies.  This is analogous to thestandard argument that announcing an explicit numerical inflation objective provides a better anchor for inflation expectations.  Thresholds provide a better anchor for our state-contingent policy intentions.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker expresses support for alternative B and the language in paragraph 5, as well as the LSAPs and flow quantities. They also agree with Vice Chairman Dudley's comments and express optimism about communicating the threshold concept to the public. The speaker disagrees with the contention that there has not been enough analysis on the issue and provides reasons for their support of thresholds. Overall, the passage is focused on expressing support and agreement rather than disagreement.


Passage number 172.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  The economic situation calls for additional, ongoing monetary stimulus, and continuing our Treasury and MBS purchases is a good way to accomplish that.  Vice Chairman Dudley summed up the arguments for a combined strategy very well, and I agree with his comments in terms of using both Treasury and MBS purchases.  I would also mention that I agree with him that I would strike the bracketed “it sees a substantial improvement” phrase from paragraph 5.  In terms of LSAPs, I will echo President Lockhart’s remarks. My own view is that appropriate policy will include extending these purchases well through most of this year, probably ending them in the fourth quarter.  That is just my own expectation.  And I would like to respond to President Fisher’s remarks about the research done at the San Francisco Fed. It is true there are issues about how do the Treasury purchases affect financial conditions.  They have identified those—both a signaling channel and a term-premium channel.  There is a lot of uncertainty about how much of a role each channel plays.  Of course, both are beneficial to the economy.  But, again, going back to the Vice Chairman’s comments, there is a lot of uncertainty about these tools in general, so that argues for using both of them.  That’s my own conclusion from reading that research. I do support the thresholds language in paragraph 5, but I confess to seeing this as a closer call than the decision to extend our asset purchases.  On the positive side, thresholds are a simple and clear way to link our policy to economic outcomes in a way that conveys that we are staying low for longer.  Nonetheless, quantitative thresholds present challenges and risks of both  substance and communications.  First of all, we should recognize we are shining a very bright spotlight on the unemployment rate.  I find the theory of rational inattention developed by Chris Sims and others instructive in this regard.  It reminds us that people have limited capacity to absorb information, and are, therefore, selective in what information they pay attention to.  When we stated a specific date for liftoff, the spotlight was cast on the calendar, and that’s what everyone focused on, for better or for worse.  Once we start talking in terms of an unemployment threshold, it will be the unemployment rate that takes center stage, commanding all of the attention of our audience.  Of course, it is important that we communicate the various modifiers and exemptions and footnotes around the use of thresholds.  But in the end, we should be realistic and recognize that most eyes will be following the spotlight.  Second, we don’t have a solid foundation on which to base our specific numerical choice for the unemployment threshold.  That came out in some of the comments already.  Over time, with new information and analysis, we may regret choosing a 6½ percent threshold.  For example, as I mentioned at our previous meeting, movements in r* or the natural rate of unemployment could change the appropriate conditions for funds rate liftoff.  Now, this is not just a theoretical concern.  A year or so ago a 7 or 7½ percent unemployment threshold seemed eminently reasonable.  In the future, we may well find ourselves in the awkward position of having to change the announced threshold either up or down.  Third, thresholds represent a major intellectual shift in how we think about and communicate policy compared with, say, a standard linear reaction function.  Even if we just focus on unemployment and inflation, our usual reaction function is a function of both unemployment and inflation together.  We don’t normally shine the policy spotlight on either unemployment or inflation separately.  Looking further ahead—I am still looking to the time when interest rates are above zero—once rates do rise above zero, our use of thresholds will  create some new challenges as we try to explain our return to a normal policy approach and communications. Weighing these costs and benefits—and, important, in the current situation where the funds rate is stuck at zero and our other policy options are limited—I am comfortable supporting thresholds.  Many of the communications challenges specific to this approach can be addressed in your press conference, Mr. Chairman—we’re loading everything on the press conference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses agreement with Vice Chairman Dudley's comments on using both Treasury and MBS purchases for ongoing monetary stimulus. They also agree with President Lockhart's remarks on extending these purchases through most of the year. The speaker supports the use of thresholds as a way to link policy to economic outcomes but acknowledges the challenges and risks associated with them. Overall, the speaker is comfortable supporting thresholds given the current situation.


Passage number 173.
 MR. FISHER.  No pressure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement as it simply states "No pressure" without any conflicting statements or opinions.


Passage number 174.
 MR. POTTER.  “Employ other tools” is the condition on the previous one, and that gets ruled out if you do, “after the asset purchases end.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I see.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Potter, without any conflicting statements or opposing views.


Passage number 175.
 MR. LACKER.  I just didn’t hear what you said, Simon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker simply states that he did not hear what Simon said, indicating a lack of understanding rather than disagreement.


Passage number 176.
 MR. POTTER.  There is a plan B option, which is “employ other tools” as well.  “Will continue its purchases and employ its other tools as appropriate.”  That’s in paragraph 4 under the conditions, what actions would be taken. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  But that is not an option.  It is already in there, you say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It seems to be explaining the presence of a plan B option and stating that it is already included in the mentioned paragraph.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 177.
 MR. POTTER.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I see. So you’re saying that’s a problem with this language.  However, we are not saying anything about the other tools—if we were to use other communications approaches, for example.  Again, the majority of people wanted just to strike this.  Are there others who want to include the asset purchase part only.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In this passage, there is contention or disagreement. The mention of "the majority of people wanted just to strike this" implies that there are others who have a different opinion or preference, indicating a disagreement in the group's decision-making process.


Passage number 178.
 MR. POWELL.  I did.  Or is your question are there others. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Powell simply confirms that he did something and asks for clarification about the question being asked.


Passage number 179.
 MR. POWELL.  I’m not sure I followed Simon’s point and your point, although you guys obviously follow it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no clear indication of contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing uncertainty about understanding the points made by Simon and someone else.


Passage number 180.
  [Laughter] MR. POTTER.  The condition was a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook, and we would use our tools to achieve that.  Our tools are not just the asset purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply discussing the conditions and tools they would use to improve the labor market outlook.


Passage number 181.
 MR. TARULLO.  But that was not actually your concern. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I don’t think there is anything logically wrong with what Governor Powell is suggesting.  I think it does establish a little bit of a separation between asset purchases and the funds rate. MS. DUKE.  And in thinking about it, referencing the asset purchase program ending does a little bit of what I would have preferred, which is tie the threshold language on fed funds to reduction in asset purchases. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Tarullo and Ms. Duke express agreement with Governor Powell's suggestion and provide additional perspectives on the topic.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 182.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, having suggested eliminating the entire bracketed portion, I would second Governor Powell’s suggestion. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right. I’m seeing a little bit of a swing in that direction. What we are proposing, then, is “remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends,” no comma, “and the economic recovery strengthens.”  Any objections. Any further comments. President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The individuals mentioned are merely proposing and seconding suggestions without any objections or further comments being mentioned.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 183.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Mr. Chairman, I am unclear about what the Committee is doing in terms of the choice at the end of paragraph 5. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We are choosing the second of the two options.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. Mr. Kocherlakota is expressing his confusion and lack of understanding about the committee's decision-making process in paragraph 5.


Passage number 184.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Choosing the second.  Okay.  Your preference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Kocherlakota is expressing his preference for the second option. There is no opposition or contradiction expressed in the passage.


Passage number 185.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  My preference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states a preference without any indication of disagreement or contention.


