****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 1.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I compliment the staff for an excellent trio of papers providing an overview of a large subject.  I have two general comments in reaction to this.  The first one is that there were some findings that were quite a surprise to me, although they probably shouldn’t have been.  In hindsight, I probably should have expected this.  What I’m referring to is where the memo showed that the frequency distribution of liftoff dates is relatively broad and flat, covering a wide range of plausible dates. I think I was assuming that if you took a given model and a given rule—if you wanted to place a lot of confidence in one model and one rule—you’d have liftoff dates fairly tightly bunched around your modal forecast of a liftoff date.  Instead, the results showed that even with a given model and a given rule, you should be relatively agnostic about when it’s likely for us to lift off.  Then you back away from certainty about the model and the rule, and you’re going to get more uncertainty because you don’t quite know the model and you’re not sure which rule characterizes good policy, and so on.  This was a really striking finding to me—and I know we’re not going to talk about policy now, but it’s about policy rules.  To me, this suggests that the proponents of the forward-guidance language we have in the statement now really need to reconcile the certainty that is conveyed by the language in the statement with the agnosticism that the staff’s analysis suggests ought to  July 31–characterize our assessment of liftoff date. You might have some strong views, but you need some explanation of how you reconcile the staff’s results with that relative certainty that’s expressed in the statement. The second comment has to do with a couple of issues.  The memo describes circumstances in which first-difference rules are relatively attractive.  One is that the more that expectations are forward looking, the better first-difference rules do relative to alternatives. I would just point out in this context that over the last at least 10 years or so that I’ve been involved with the FOMC, I’ve seen the staff move decidedly in the direction of  adopting the approach of assuming expectations are more forward looking, both in their analysis of the economy and in their analysis of policy.  It’s obvious that the profession moved decidedly in that direction as well, although the timing might have been different.  To me this is an argument in favor of giving first-difference rules a little more weight.  The staff also points out that uncertainty about the natural rate favors first-difference rules, and, obviously, there’s a large literature on this—for example, Orphanides and Williams—documenting historical evidence that misjudgments about the natural rate can lead to pretty serious policy errors.  The only thing I’d add to this is that while there’s been research out there, I don’t think it takes on board necessarily the extent to which—and this is extra evidence here—that within the Committee, there’s a tremendous range of views about the natural rate.  And in this regard, you made a comment, Jon, that ignoring the level of the gap seems to go too far, and as I listen to you, I think you base that on two things.  One is that when the output gap is really large, we should care about it.  We do care about a large output gap.  And the other was that large output gaps tend to be persistent.  Well, there are estimates of the output gap based on DSGE models in which the output gap is smaller.  Moreover, that’s the welfare-relevant gap in those models.  The argument that we care   July 31–about large gaps is based on some less-than-agnosticism about the level of the gap; it’s based on some views about the gap.  And then I think it is true as well that in DSGE models, those gaps are less persistent than the ones based on a notion of potential that imposes a substantial amount of smoothness on the estimate of potential.  The argument seems to be, well, the first-difference rule is really good if you don’t know much about the output gap, but we do know enough to say you shouldn’t ignore the rule.  Those are my two comments about the rules, and again, I commend the staff. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you want to say something, Jon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker expresses surprise and disagreement with the findings presented in the memo regarding the broad and flat distribution of liftoff dates. He also suggests that proponents of the forward-guidance language in the statement need to reconcile the certainty conveyed by the language with the uncertainty suggested by the staff's analysis. Additionally, Mr. Lacker disagrees with the level of weight given to first-difference rules and argues in favor of giving them more weight.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 2.
 MR. FAUST.  Let me make a couple of comments.  I think that we were somewhat surprised about the dispersion of the liftoff dates under these rules, although I think a number of Reserve Banks that ran some simulations indicated there was dispersion.  We were surprised at the degree.  And just to get some intuition for why that’s true, we happen to have a baseline forecast that has the economy kind of moving slowly away from the conditions that warrant being at the zero lower bound. That means that the notional interest rate implied by these rules— I’m saying “notional” because it may be negative or below the bound—the notional value is lurking near the zero lower bound for about three years, and since it lurks near the bound for three years, any positive shock may lead you to lift off.  If the rule doesn’t have inertia, the next negative shock will also send you back to the zero bound.  And so it’s the fact that we’re lurking near the zero bound for a long time that leads to this result. President Lacker raised some important questions about whether the current forward-guidance language would be appropriate if we were following one of these rules, and, as he indicated, I think this evidence says it would be a bit problematic.  Now, that doesn’t mean that this dispersion characterizes how the FOMC is actually behaving; that’s a matter for you all toJuly 31–decide.  However, I think the memo suggests that you wouldn’t want to follow any of these rules, especially the jumpier ones—those that are more likely to lift off.  The other rules have a much later liftoff date that might well be consistent with the language that says “at least until” a certain point.  That’s for later consideration, tomorrow perhaps.  About the first-difference rule, there are some good cases for it.  When I say that the research suggests that it goes too far to eliminate the level of the output gap, that result comes from research that incorporated the empirical properties of historical measurement errors, and so it reflected the actual ignorance that we experienced and still found that putting weight on the gap was a good idea.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker (Mr. Faust) is expressing surprise and disagreement with the dispersion of liftoff dates under certain rules. He also questions the appropriateness of the current forward-guidance language and suggests that following any of these rules, especially the "jumpier" ones, would not be ideal.


Passage number 3.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Can I add a couple of things to this.  First, one problem about the liftoff date that the Committee might want to think about in terms of forward guidance is that the liftoff date in some ways is a lousy summary statistic of what the relevant policy stance will be because it’s one point in time.  Going back to the simulation analysis in the memo, by strictly following a rule you can have episodes in which the liftoff date pops up for a quarter or two and then goes right back to zero.  In terms of what’s going to matter to the market and bond pricing, they’re really trying to guess the average level of the funds rate over time, and the distribution of that average level over time. That average level is a much less jumpy variable than the liftoff date you get from following a particular rule. Now, saying the Committee should think about forward guidance in terms of a path, that’s a much harder problem.  But you can lead yourself astray by focusing too much on the distributional statistics of the liftoff date and how meaningful that date is for what the average stance of policy might be and how sensitive the average stance of policy will be to economic conditions.  The third thing I’d say, and this is up to the Committee to decide, is that in interpreting the statement, it’s conditional. It’s a probabilistic statement about the liftoff date, because it says it’s “likely.” Looking at the market’s views about the  July 31–probable date of liftoff—what’s priced into options—you get a range of views.  I think everyone understands that there’s a considerable dispersion of views about possible liftoff dates as well as a considerable range of views in the markets about what the modal liftoff date would be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 4.
 MR. LACKER.  Could I follow up, Mr. Chairman. I agree that the liftoff date is a lousy summary statistic, as I think you put it, for our future policy, and what was surprising about the memo was the evidence that so strongly buttressed that view.  That’s how I read those graphs— that we’re more uncertain about the date.  I take the language in the statement to connote at least a 50 percent chance that we are not going to raise rates until then.  That’s what I take away from the “likely” language, and that seemed inconsistent with the simulations that the staff showed us.  If you say there are other rules that have later dates, then maybe this distribution should be a systematic part of what the staff reports to us going forward. It might be more informative than just the line drawings that show single modal outcomes under various scenarios. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. One can respond to that in a couple of ways.  One way is that what they find is a purely unconditional distribution; it isn’t contingent on what happens in the economy.  Of course, what we’ve been talking about is what we think economic conditions are likely to be and, therefore, how we will respond to those conditions.  So, first, it’s a conditional commitment, not an unconditional commitment.  Second, there’s no discussion here about the value of commitment.  You didn’t really talk very much about credibility and the possibility that by making a commitment to a certain policy, even if it’s not necessarily ex post optimal—that is, it may be time-inconsistent—there may be some benefits ex ante.  And that’s a question that could be posed.  But I would agree that we need to work as a Committee to try to find a way to characterize the future path more explicitly in terms of economic conditions, and I agree with you that that would be a better way to do it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. While there may be a difference of opinion on how to characterize the future path of policy more explicitly, there is no significant disagreement or contention in this passage. The speaker acknowledges the need for a better way to communicate economic conditions and suggests considering a systematic distribution of possible outcomes instead of just single modal outcomes.


Passage number 5.
   July 31–MR. FAUST.  Let me add one comment.  There are rules that deliver a later date, and they’re in the memo.  The nominal income–targeting rule, as we know, comes close to approximating optimal control, which has a very late liftoff date and is fully consistent with the forward guidance; and the inertial Taylor rule has a later liftoff date. Remember, we were using the June baseline because we were running these simulations before the July baseline was available. If we had done it for the July baseline, the inertial Taylor rule would have had an even later date of liftoff consistent with the language.  Those inertial rules require some degree of commitment as we touched on, but could be completely consistent with the language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing additional information and clarifying the timing of certain rules.


Passage number 6.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  And to buttress what Jon just said, one of the memos made the point that an inertial Taylor rule can incorporate a threshold for action—just because it’s 27 basis points you don’t lift off.  In one particular case that we considered, you wait until it is 75 basis points.  In that case, the distribution for the liftoff date is shoved way out into the future, and the modal liftoff point looks like it’s the first quarter of 2016.  My point is that there can be very mechanical rules with very mechanical responses that have certain types of inertia.  Those inertial rules are not going to respond to what just could be a transitory pickup in the economy, and as a result they push that distribution markedly out into the future in terms of liftoff date. Which one of these rules is in line with what the Committee is doing, I don’t know.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply making a point about how certain rules may not accurately respond to temporary changes in the economy, pushing the liftoff date for interest rates further into the future.


Passage number 7.
 MR. LACKER.  I’m not sure we do either.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement provided by Mr. Lacker does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply expresses uncertainty or lack of knowledge about a particular topic.


Passage number 8.
  [Laughter] MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  But the point is that you can even follow a fairly mechanistic rule and still have a probability distribution for liftoff that is even further out in the future than the statement might be interpreted as having. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 9.
 July 31–MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First I want to thank the staff for their work on rules.  If we can agree to allow the robust and simple rules to provide at least first-order guidance for policy, I think there are important benefits to be derived for our policy choices, for providing some clarity about communications, and for the transparency of understanding our decisionmaking process. But I do want to take a couple of minutes to offer some thoughts about how we should go about or not go about thinking about evaluating these alternative rules.  Some of my points are consistent with what Jon has already talked about in his presentation. First and foremost, I do not think we should evaluate simple rules or robust rules based on how they perform at the zero bound on interest rates.  We should evaluate how the rules perform in normal times and select a rule or set of rules that help guide policy during those times.  However, this evaluation process might take into account, for example, the probability of a rule leading to hitting the zero bound under any proposed rule.  But that’s different from choosing a rule based on its performance at the zero bound.  In a zero-bound environment, important nonlinearities are present.  They will make it very hard to assess the performance or appropriateness of any given rule since most of the models and analytics we have aren’t well suited for such boundary constraints.  Instead we should be prepared to augment the baseline rules in a way that might be appropriate in the face of constraints posed by the zero bound.  For example, we might consider augmenting our interest rate rules with adjustments for balance sheet actions or some other mechanism for making adjustments.  Thus, comparing the implications of unadjusted rules at the zero bound seems to me to be the wrong way to go about selecting or evaluating the desirability of any particular rule. Why reject a rule that works well 95 percent of the time simply because 5 percent of the time we may have to figure out how to adjust it.  As I said, it would be informative, however, to get an assessment of how often a   July 31–simple rule in normal times might lead to us hitting the zero bound, as that might be considered an undesirable feature. Second, a lesson that is apparent in Keith Kuester’s memo is that optimal control policies derived in one model often lead to poor outcomes in another model.  An important motivation for a simple rule is to find one that is robust, that is, it performs well across a variety of models. Model uncertainty is pervasive in macroeconomics.  Thus, we need to keep in mind that FRB/US is just one of many competing models, and its optimal control outcomes are almost certainly far from optimal if the operating model is something different.  Consequently, we must resist the temptation to place too much weight on the optimal control scenarios in FBR/US or judge the value or merits of any particular rule by how close or how well it compares with the optimal control path produced by FRB/US.  If we do so, we can make some very big mistakes if FRB/US ends up being the wrong operative framework.  The idea of simple and robust rules is that they perform reasonably well across a range of plausible models.  I don’t believe that a good way to evaluate the robustness properties of these rules is to benchmark them against optimal policy in a single model or even assessing performance in one model. I’d also mention that in the Kuester memo, the so-called Taylor (1999) benchmark rule did not perform very well relative to some other robust muddles—models.  “Muddles” may be actually a better word.  I don’t know.  As President Lacker pointed out, it does particularly poorly, for example, in some of the models that rely on more forward-looking agents.  Thus, I think we should be cautious about what I see as a tendency to emphasize this rule as an appealing, robust rule over some of the others.  Indeed, consistent with the literature, he finds that, as we’ve been talking about, the first-difference rules tend to be somewhat more robust across models than ordinary Taylor-type rules. As I said, this is particularly the case for modelsJuly 31–in which agents are more forward looking.  Of course, as has already been mentioned, first-difference rules also have been advocated on the grounds of measurement error.  That issue is not taken up in the Kuester memo, but it is important when the natural rates and potential output are poorly measured. Thus, I would encourage the staff and others to evaluate robust rules in a variety of models, and I think we need to continue to pursue this as though there will inevitably be robust rules, and recognizing that there are occasions where they don’t work well or are never going to be perfect. But we shouldn’t be basing our rules purely against FRB/US or any other sort of unique model or in circumstances I believe in which the zero bound is particularly operative. The zero bound will be a case where we will make deviations from simple rules, and we should just acknowledge that and not let that be the guiding principle, at least until our theoretical models have better ways of dealing with the nonlinearities and constraints that a zero bound presents us.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thanks. President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a presentation of thoughts and opinions on how to evaluate alternative rules for policy guidance. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 10.
 MR. EVANS.  Could I just ask a question of President Plosser.  I’m really puzzled over the logic behind why, at this point in the economic cycle, we would want to be carrying on an evaluation of these rules in terms of normal times when we are far from normal times. It’s akin to thinking that if I wanted to carry around a radio that is the best radio under normal conditions, I might choose a model that’s got lots of bells and whistles and really takes a tremendous amount of energy and drains the batteries quickly; but that’s okay because normally I can plug it in and recharge it or whatnot.  However, then I find myself on Gilligan’s Island where the transistor radio runs out of batteries within about two hours, and I want to make it last for however long it takes. It seems to me like what you’re describing is a perfectly reasonable approach to how we   July 31–would evaluate normal approaches to policy, but at the moment we want to think about the special features.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Evans, is expressing confusion and disagreement with the logic behind evaluating rules in normal times when the current economic situation is far from normal. He uses an analogy to highlight his point and argues that the approach being described is not suitable for the current circumstances.


Passage number 11.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Well, I think, President Evans, the issue really is about how we establish and create our monetary policy or strategic framework for conducting monetary policy.  I don’t think you want to ignore both how you communicate that strategy and how you want to think about that strategy if you want to be transparent about that.  I don’t think any of us, or anybody else I know of, views any kind of robust rule as a mechanistic rule that we just never deviate from.  There will always be times when we deviate.  This may be one of those times that we deviate, but how we deviate depends on where you want the baseline in terms of what you think your strategy is, and you may have to adapt to that.  What I don’t want to do and what I think we should guard against is allowing the current unusual time to guide us in how we think about developing the strategy more broadly for how we conduct monetary policy.  I agree that there are times when you will deviate.  I’m not suggesting that you don’t, but it’s nice to be able to have a framework on which you choose to rest your laurels, so to speak, most of the time and recognize that at times you will deviate.  Then we can debate and argue about what is the appropriate manner for us to deviate from that rule.  That ultimately makes our communications efforts easier and more clear because then we have to explain why we’re doing what we’re doing.  I think that improves the clarity of our communications and the clarity of the monetary policy process. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any explicit disagreement or contention. It appears to be a statement of one individual's perspective on how monetary policy should be conducted and communicated.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 12.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to thank the staff as well for an interesting set of memos concerning policy rules. I do think this is a fascinating literature, and one that very much informs the debate here at the FOMC.  It’s one that I have tried to contribute  July 31–to myself, and I know many around the table have also done work on the topic.  I have several remarks on the memos. I’m just going to list them, and then I’ll expand on them a little bit.  The first remark is that it’s pretty clear that this literature is not mature enough to give good advice on the commitment of actual policymakers to a particular policy rule.  Accordingly, I think that the policy rules discussion has to remain a step outside the actual policymaking process, which is sort of how I view it now—that it’s informing the process, but the Committee does not actually commit to a particular rule.  The second comment is that much of the discussion and analysis has the flavor of lining up the adoption of a policy rule with the date of liftoff in the policy rate.  This echoes some of the earlier comments. I think that this is inconsistent with the idea that the reason the Committee is naming a potential liftoff date is to suggest a commitment to staying at the zero bound longer than would otherwise be called for by ordinary policy. I’ll expand on that a little bit in just a minute. The third comment is that in much of the analysis the ties to household utility are weak.  In my view, policymakers should not be free to choose objective functions arbitrarily as is done in parts of this analysis, but should be required to map policy actions back to the welfare of actual households inside the model.  Comment four is that I would suggest evaluating the rule somewhat more holistically based on long-run simulations.  Committing to these rules means committing to keep unemployment higher than it would otherwise be in some states of the world.  I’d like to see what those states are and how long they would last, and ask whether the Committee is willing to accept this feature of committing to a policy rule.  Number five is that in many models in this class, the worst policy is the so-called interest rate peg policy.  Such a policy inside the model allows many possible equilibrium outcomes.  The rules suggested here have the policy rate unchanged for years and years,July 31–approximating the interest rate peg policy. This could be viewed as an additional and much more virulent—Richard, is “virulent” a word.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker suggests that the literature on policy rules is not mature enough to give good advice on the commitment of policymakers to a specific rule, while others in the discussion may have a different view on this topic.


Passage number 13.
 MR. FISHER.  Yes, it is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage begins with someone addressing Mr. Fisher and responding with a one-word answer "Yes" to a statement or question that was not mentioned prior. Without additional context, it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 14.
 MR. BULLARD.  It is.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard simply acknowledges that the statement is correct by saying "It is" and then moves on with "Okay."


Passage number 15.
 MR. FISHER.  Wait a minute.  Let me check with Governor Tarullo.  [Laughter] Two confirmations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement present in the passage. The mention of laughter indicates a lighthearted or humorous moment, suggesting a positive and cooperative atmosphere.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 16.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, if I heard your question correctly, I have spent enough time with Finn Kydland to do two things: One is to appreciate microbreweries because he has become quite good at it—and oddball wines—and the other is to appreciate the value of using a rule to develop a perspective on policy.  There is a strong theoretical case for developing a rule.July 31–The question is, how do we develop a rule for the world that we currently live in. My colleague just touched on this—not only are we at the zero bound, but we are post-crisis.  And one of the things I have had a problem with, and I have discussed at great length with John Taylor, is this whole issue of an output gap.  You and I have had discussions on this, but how do you define an output gap in a globalized world. Jim just referred to globalization.  I think that’s one of the issues that I’m not sure we properly take account of, and I wonder—and this is a question, again, not being as sophisticated as other people at this table—about the degree to which we tend to think in terms of a closed economy when we develop these rules, and how much we can possibly develop a rule, not just against a zero bound, but in the kind of world that we actually live in.  It’s just not clear to me if we can easily do that.  I think the subject should be pursued.  I thought Jon did a great job in his presentation.  I must say, I actually enjoyed reading these memos.  I thought the Philadelphia memo raised some very good questions, not only questions about a real-time data problem but also about the zero bound.  And it also hinted at—at least the way I read it—the concern about globalization.  So it is not clear to me that this is doable, but I understand the theory behind wanting to do it. Just two other quick points.  On page 12 of the longer memo there was a sentence that really caught my eye. It said, “An impairment of the transmission mechanism would call for more accommodative conventional monetary policy than that implied by the simple rules, all else equal.” I wonder about that.  To me, it represents just pouring it on.  And the question is, why not try to affect the transmission mechanism rather than increase the quantity of accommodation.  I know that’s not what we’re talking about here, but that did catch my eye.  The second issue I have is that none of this addresses whether these were the right outcomes. If you look at that exhibit 1, the rule may have led this Committee to lead to a very low interest rate   July 31–environment prior to 2005 and 2006.  Was it the right decision to raise rates as quickly as we did.  The reason I mention all of this—again from a less sophisticated perspective than President Lacker or our other two interlocutors—is that these are simple questions that I think we need to address in order to be effective.  And then, also constantly asking ourselves, does the rule lead us in the right direction.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  If you feel compelled to comment, raise your hand.  But otherwise, let’s hear everybody, and then Jon will make the final comments.  Okay. President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

There is contention in this passage because Mr. Fisher raises several points of disagreement and skepticism. He questions the feasibility of developing a rule in the current globalized world, expresses doubt about the effectiveness of using an output gap as a measure, and raises concerns about the implications and outcomes of following a rule.


Passage number 17.
 MR. WILLIAMS. I would like to thank Jon and the Board, and the Philadelphia staff as well, for their thoughtful and helpful discussions on this topic.  Personally, I find monetary policy rules to be a useful guide for thinking about the appropriate stance of policy.  Importantly, they provide us with a straightforward way to think about monetary policy in terms of systematic, predictable responses to changing economic conditions.  Now, the background materials covered a lot of ground, so in my time I will focus on the issue of adapting policy rules to what President Evans calls the “Gilligan’s Island economy,” that is, situations where the zero bound does constrain policy.  And I have to say, President Plosser, that the prediction that 95 percent of the time we’ll be away from the zero bound, and 5 percent of the time we’ll be at the zero bound is optimistic to me—at least so far in my tenure, it has been zero.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It mainly consists of the speaker expressing their gratitude and stating their personal views on monetary policy rules.


Passage number 18.
  [Laughter] MR. PLOSSER.  Fortunately, we have a bigger sample than that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement relating to the size of a sample.


Passage number 19.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to thank the staff, both here at the Board and in Philadelphia, for the three very useful memos.  I found them, as others have said, quite illuminating. I am going to deviate from the trend I have heard around the table and am going to actually have some questions for the staff, but it is useful to provide a little context for what my questions are.  My questions are going to be about LSAP adjustment.  And right now, in particular, a lot of the focus of the policy discussion around the table is about the use of LSAPs.  And President Williams and Governor Yellen just highlighted the difficulties of using standard rules when you’re at the zero lower bound.  But one of the benefits of large-scale asset purchases is they are able to offer stimulus, and in that way we are in some sense breaking the zero lower bound.  My questions are going to be about trying to use the insights from rules in order to understand how we should be adjusting this extra stimulus being provided by the large-scale asset purchases. My first question is a narrow one.  The second Board memo expresses some concerns about LSAP adjustment because there is a view that we should be making up for underaccumulation of past accommodation.  I think that the idea is that because of the perceived cost of unconventional policy the FOMC failed to provide sufficient accommodation in 2009, and that we should now somehow make up for that.  But my question is, why isn’t that mistake sunk.  Why should I be worried today in 2012 about underprovision of accommodation in the past.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 20.
 July 31–MR. FAUST.  Let me say a couple of things, and then I think Dave Reifschneider will want to comment.  One important point that we tried to make in the memo was that under certain assumptions that you guys have derived, you can make an adjustment that exactly and properly adjusts for the effect of LSAPs and allows you to mirror the outcome you would have had under the unconstrained rule.  And we want to emphasize is that there are a lot of other special factors going on at the zero lower bound that might make you want to be doing something else in the present circumstances.  The clearest example to me—but not everybody likes this one—is that fiscal policy in the current circumstance is behaving dramatically differently from how it behaved in almost all of the other recessions, the ones in which that rule was found to be a good thing.  We all think that the interaction of monetary and fiscal policy is central to understanding either one of them.  You don’t want to get only the stance of monetary policy right; you want to get the stance of overall macro policy right.  And so we would want to adjust for LSAPs.  We would also want to adjust for fiscal policy.  And I can list two or three other things where I can make a good case as well for making an adjustment.  So the answer to the first part of your question is that it would be great to come up with a fully and properly adjusted rule.  Adjusting for maybe one or two special factors, but not three or four other relevant things—that I am not so much in favor of. The second part of your question is about the references in the memo to filling the past policy accommodation hole. I will let Dave comment on that, if he wants to, because that is more his area.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of the speaker explaining their position and considerations on monetary and fiscal policy.


Passage number 21.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I will start by going back a little bit over the ground that Jon did because he raised a key issue, which is, what are the benchmarks against which you evaluate what is a good adjustment.  One way we would do it is to forget rules and just have a loss   July 31–function or something to represent what’s a good outcome.  As we pointed out in the memo, if you said, “I’m going to follow one of two rules.  I’m either going to follow a Taylor (1999) rule or I’m going to follow an LSAP-adjusted Taylor (1999) rule, we could ask which rule would be better in terms of better macro outcomes. The answer in the memo was that you wouldn’t want to adjust the rule because the adjustment would cause you to lift off from the zero bound earlier.  What you would want to do in the face of this big shock that had kept you trapped at the zero lower bound, is just be easier for longer.  That’s just another way of stating the point that John Williams made, which is that Reifschneider–Williams adjustments, we’ll call them, make up for the fact that you were stuck at the zero lower bound—that you were in a bad state—and if you were trying to get a better outcome you would do an adjustment to stay easier for longer. Now, a different way of looking at this issue is to say, “Well, I don’t know what loss function anybody has in mind, or anything else like that.” It wasn’t expressed so colorfully in this version, but I think how the March memo from John Roberts and Ed Nelson put it was, suppose you were a policymaker who just loved the performance of the economy under, say, Taylor (1999)—pick your rule; it doesn’t quite really matter—when you never were worried about the zero bound.  Then, you get into a really bad shock that sticks you at the zero lower bound, and the policymaker says, “Gee, I would really like to replicate the performance of the unconstrained Taylor rule.  How do I do it.”  What the Minneapolis note from April showed was that if you had been using asset purchases very aggressively, in fact so aggressively you essentially had made up for the fact that you were stuck at the zero lower bound, then when you are coming out and are no longer constrained by the zero lower bound, a policymaker who wanted to replicate the hypothetical behavior of the economy under an unconstrained Taylor rule should make those LSAP adjustments.  The formula that the Minneapolis memo had for July 31–adjusting the Taylor rule was exactly right in that world. But what the memo that we distributed this time went on to say—and the point was definitely made in the Minneapolis note, too—was that there is a condition for LSAP adjustments to be appropriate, and that condition was that the Committee had done enough LSAPs to make up for the shortfall.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing explanations and elaborating on different viewpoints and perspectives.


Passage number 22.
 MR. FAUST.  Before the current one.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide any information or indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 23.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Right.  In some sense, had you done enough with LSAPs to make up for the shortfall, so that when you are coming out finally, there is nothing in the past that you need to make up for, and the economy had been on that path that you would have wanted to have been on if you could have gone below zero.  But if you are not on that path, if the Committee hadn’t done enough, the question is, what can you do to get me closer to that path. The other way of putting it was, did doing the LSAP adjustment put you closer to that path or not.  And the answer was, no, it didn’t put you close to the path.  You would be better off not doing the adjustment.  These are the examples that we looked at. If one felt that the two LSAP programs and the MEP had basically managed to replicate what would have been possible under Taylor (1999) unconstrained and you are a policymaker who thought that that was just the right thing to do, then you would want to adjust.  But if you didn’t think that they had fully made up the gap, then you wouldn’t want to make the adjustments. It might be that those programs might not have made up the gap because you might have thought they were too costly a tool to use to make up the gap.  Alternatively, if you don’t care what Taylor (1999) says, you might be just asking yourself whether this is a good outcome for unemployment and a good outcome for inflation.  Alternatively, you can go ahead and make the adjustments, but there are more than offsetting adjustments you would make along the lines that President Williams was discussing a few minutes ago. I don’t know if that helps.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is presenting different perspectives and considerations for making adjustments to the LSAP programs, but there is no specific disagreement or conflict between individuals.


Passage number 24.
  July 31–MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Well, that is going to lead pretty nicely into my second question.  I thought that you and Jon hit on two separate issues, which are important to separate.  One is that the dynamics of the economy right now might well be different from what has been true in the past, and our policy reaction function might well want to adjust for it. Vice Chairman Dudley has highlighted this as well in one of his speeches, that there might be reasons to think that the natural real rate of interest right now is considerably lower than it was five years ago. Then, there is a separate point about the fact that interest rates are constrained by zero. If we are able to do an arbitrary amount of LSAPs—and we just got a memo from New York saying we can do a lot more than I thought—then we should be able, in principle, to provide as much stimulus as we could by lowering interest rates, whatever rule you want to use.  And then, there is a question of how do we do the translation.  And that leads into my second question.  LSAPs are not just another adjustment like fiscal policy because, unlike fiscal policy—which I watch and wonder at—we actually get to do something about monetary policy.  Tomorrow the Committee is going to be asked to think about alternative A versus alternative B. It is useful to have a monetary policy rule to serve as a guide to thinking about that choice.  How should I do that.  That’s my question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is primarily discussing different aspects of monetary policy and asking for guidance on how to make choices in that regard.


Passage number 25.
 MR. FAUST.  Well, let me say a couple of things.  First of all, on fiscal and monetary policy, it’s not a matter of who gets to actually implement it; it’s a matter of what the appropriate stance of either one is.  And that appropriate stance, in my view, is appropriately jointly determined.  If fiscal policy is operating very differently than at other times, the dual mandate doesn’t say, “Pretend fiscal policy is operating as normal, and then behave appropriately.” It is a joint determination.  Now, that is a separate point from the one you were talking about, and I agree that those should be separated.July 31–On your point about, what should we do.  I think a lot of people around the table have said that in light of the current circumstances—the person sitting next to you maybe has dwelt on it as much as anyone—the simple models—say, those in which the simple adjustment for LSAPs would be exactly right—are perhaps adequate in normal times.  I’m not sure they are so adequate now, and so to have confidence in those is kind of difficult.  That is why the staff has been attempting to provide information to allow lots of kinds of adjustments that would allow people to make judgments about where to go from there, whatever policy rule they like.  We are not against adjusting for LSAPs, but, rather, we are in favor of—and I think the memos support this—thinking about a lot of factors and how they call for different adjustments at present.  The presence of LSAPs is one such factor, but I don’t think it’s unique or special.  Finally, everybody around the table probably has their own view about whether the use of LSAPs so far has completely offset any effects of the zero lower bound.  Indeed, if we were all confident on this, I think we would have a simpler time around the table—our discussion might be quite different if we could just condition on the past use of LSAPs as being such that the effective lower bound has no implication.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is mainly a discussion of different viewpoints and considerations regarding fiscal and monetary policy.


Passage number 26.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. What I would add to that goes back to the forecast targeting point that Jon was making in his presentation, and it links up to the consensus forecast discussion that you will have later in the meeting. One way to look at the issue is to say, “What does the Committee think is the most likely outcome for real activity and inflation going forward and how does that link up to the dual mandate.”  Suppose the Committee looks at the projected paths for, say, the unemployment rate and inflation conditional on what was in the statement last time, and determines, “Yes, that is consistent with the dual mandate.” Let’s say it’s balanced. Let’s say inflation was a little bit above 2 percent and unemployment was coming down to 5½ percent or July 31–something, which is the midpoint of the Committee’s longer-run normal range.  Then you might say, “Okay, that’s balanced; that’s fine; that’s an okay strategy.” If it wasn’t showing that, if it was showing inflation running persistently below 2 percent, and unemployment staying persistently above, then you might say, “Okay, that’s grounds right there for further policy action.”  Now, of course, the other complication with this approach is that when you are dealing with LSAPs or the MEP or whatever, you have to ask yourself how effective they are going to be and if there are costs associated with them.  There is a second cost-benefit analysis that you would have to do because it is an unusual tool.  But stepping back from that, I would first look, conditional on some policy, at the expected outcomes for real activity and inflation.  And then I’d ask, is that outlook consistent with the dual mandate.  Is that outlook satisfactory.  And if it isn’t satisfactory, do more.  Then the question becomes, do I have a tool with which I can do more and for which the benefits from using that tool outweigh its costs.  That would be how I would answer your question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a discussion of different factors to consider when assessing the outlook for real activity and inflation and determining whether further policy action is warranted.


Passage number 27.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. As you’ll hear over the next couple days, I’m sympathetic to what you’re saying about the forecast-based approach.  One of the reasons we do like rules is that formulating forecasts of medium-term inflationary pressures is not easy.  One of the reasons we’re using models is to try to deliver forecasts, but different models might differ on that, and rules are maybe a little more mechanical way, but we hope a more robust way, to get at that.  So I think there is more of a give-and-take between the forecast-based approach and the rules-based approach, and the take-away that I heard from you is that you’re leaving policymakers on their own in terms of how to adjust rules for LSAPs.  Is that the right take-away.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing sympathy and agreement with what is being said about the forecast-based approach and the use of rules. They also express a desire for a more robust way to predict inflationary pressures and suggest that rules may be a helpful tool in achieving this.


Passage number 28.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. The point we made in the memo was that there are a number of unusual circumstances going on right now.  One of them is LSAPs, and that suggests we adjust July 31–the rules in a certain direction. Others are having been stuck at the zero lower bound for a long time and thinking that maybe unconventional policy didn’t make up for it.  Another is maybe we’re looking at a lower natural interest rate, and so on.  There are all sorts of unusual circumstances.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It presents a list of unusual circumstances without any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 29.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Right.  I have a choice to face tomorrow—or not me, but the voters do—of deciding whether or not to provide more of this particular kind of action.  And the question is: Is there a way to adjust a rule to provide some guidance about whether or not to take that choice or not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is a disagreement in the passage. The speaker is discussing the decision of whether or not to provide more of a certain type of action, suggesting there is a debate about whether it is the right choice or not.


Passage number 30.
 MR. FAUST. Here’s the answer that I think is most appropriate to that.  The whole simple rules literature attempted to distill some truths that are out there across all the models and imbed them in a rule.  That’s great. Now, if we were in a position right now to distill some truths about current circumstances that we could all agree about—did we fill the hole with past LSAPs; are labor markets functioning in a standard way.—then maybe we could have a simple rule that would be appropriate.  But in my view, we get into a bit of a stone soup situation if we say, “I really like simple rules if we just adjust for A—and then B—and then better adjust for C and D.”  And then we’ve left the simple rule behind.  And from the standpoint of the staff, there’s a problem that if you come up with an adjustment that encompasses myriad factors, the appropriate response by the policymakers who would like help could be, “I don’t believe that.  What’s in that adjustment.”  And then we’d go back to discussing A and B and C.  It’s a complex situation, and maybe we should go back to Einstein here; it’s not amenable to a simple characterization. I am particularly reticent to recommend:  “There’s this one adjustment on which we have a bit of theory and that only holds in certain models.  It’s not robust across models, but at least we have some theory that tells us what that number would be.  Let’s goJuly 31–ahead and add that one in.  We’ll leave the other adjustments vague.”  That strikes me as particularly dangerous because you might attribute a false precision to a single adjustment.  You could goad the staff into providing more information about each of these things that we’re saying one needs to adjust for.  Well that’s we are trying to do; we’re working pretty hard on that, as are your staffs. It’s a complicated topic, and we’ll report back as frequently as we have something useful to say. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Were there short interjections.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their own viewpoint and concerns about using complex adjustments in simple rules, but there is no direct disagreement with any other individual or viewpoint.


Passage number 31.
 MR. FISHER.  Judging from your expression when I raised both hands, I’m going to pass.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Nothing personal.  I’m just looking at the time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a lighthearted exchange and there is no clear contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 32.
 MR. FISHER.  No.  I think we want to move on. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher suggests moving on, and President Bullard does not express any disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 33.
 MR. BULLARD.  I appreciate everything you guys are saying on this topic, and there are lots of adjustments, but it wasn’t clear to me, and maybe it’s not clear to the Committee that that means that, “You shouldn’t do an adjustment and, therefore, I’m going to report some results for some unadjusted rules.” That leaves you open to everyone saying, “Well, you know, what about these other factors.” Maybe what you’re saying is it’s just inconsistent to talk about simple rules and then talk about lots of adjustments.  But it’s not clear to me that, therefore, you should look at unadjusted results and at these graphs of unadjusted rules and what they would imply because you know that that is, in some sense, not right unless all of those adjustments are offsetting in some particular way.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard acknowledges that there are different viewpoints and adjustments discussed, but he disagrees with the suggestion of looking at unadjusted results and graphs. He argues that it is inconsistent to talk about simple rules and then consider numerous adjustments, indicating a disagreement on the approach to be taken.


Passage number 34.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. What I would say is there are a number of adjustments that we can sign, and I think that almost all of them go in the opposite direction than the LSAP  July 31–adjustment.  That’s one reason we’re so queasy about the LSAP adjustment.  And, second, we can do some back-of-the-envelope calculations on things—which we have done—such as, if the equilibrium funds rate is not 2¼ but is 1½ or 1¾, and if the previous policy shortfall is a certain amount.  I think they can easily carry you from add-factoring up to add-factoring down.  And then we get back to Jon’s philosophical point that we’re definitely not using a simple rule any longer, and we are delivering other analyses, such as optimal control, which we can do in multiple models.  But if the Committee would like, we could do other analyses; we could put out an extended set of rules with all sorts of adjustments.  I don’t know if that’s helpful or not. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The last person on my list is President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There does not appear to be any contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing different adjustments and calculations that can be made, but there is no conflicting viewpoint or argument being presented.


Passage number 35.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you.  I didn’t really prepare any remarks.  I think I followed some bad advice from Governor Tarullo last time when he said we shouldn’t come and have prepared remarks. I actually have more questions than comments. It does seem like there have been a lot of references to designing “the rule,” coming up with the best, simple, robust type of rule—or at least I heard it that way—and that certainly seems overly ambitious.  I thought this was really more about showing a collection of different possibilities.  I kind of favor this eclectic approach.  I have my own view, which is I would take the best-looking model that I think captures the data and think seriously about what the optimal policy is within the context of that.  But if I want to think about robustness, I would think of this as a collection of models, which then has to be evaluated, as the memo suggests, along the lines of forecast-based targeting.  That approach seems best aligned with being responsive to our mandated goals, and I wholeheartedly support that type of advice.  Now, that does raise a question, which President Plosser was sort of getting at.  The way I heard it was—and some others might have mentioned this, too—well, what if these policy rules are overly tuned to the July 31–characteristics of FRB/US, or a particular model, and what if that model is wrong.  And that’s a very interesting and important question to ask because it could be costly.  One question I immediately asked my own staff was, “Okay.  That’s fine.  How many alternative models do we want to contemplate.”  Because it’s not obvious how many we want to look at.  To some extent it’s a little ad hoc as to how many of these models or how much dimensionality do we want in the space of different viewpoints on how the economy behaves.  We have to take a stand on that.  I read the Philadelphia memo quickly, but my staff advised me that the Philadelphia memo was pretty careful in looking at a wide variety of models that, in fact, seem to fit the data pretty well. One question that I have is: Jon, did you find different prescriptions coming out of the Philadelphia model than what I heard in your own presentation.  I would have thought that as you expanded the models, you would see many of the same conclusions, but I’d be interested in any differences.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no apparent contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their thoughts and opinions on the topic being discussed.


Passage number 36.
 MR. FAUST. It was very broadly consistent. The main difference really is that we didn’t address the probability of hitting the bound under the various rules, and including that was a nice addition.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No
Explanation: The statement indicates that there is agreement or alignment between the speaker and the person they are referring to. They mention a minor difference but describe it as a "nice addition," suggesting there is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 37.
 MR. EVANS. The days when I think of myself as an econometrician make me wonder whether, if you were going to bring these other models to the table and say a little bit about how the data speak to that, you would want to use something like method of moments to weight those that are most informative about the data and down-weight others.  Otherwise, it’s just completely uniform and ad hoc: I get to throw in some bad model projections, and that can distort how this comes out. And, Jon, I suppose that must be in the kind of work that you were doing.  You would let the simulations speak to that somehow.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is more of a statement discussing the use of different models and methods in analyzing data.


Passage number 38.
  July 31–MR. FAUST.  But there are papers, including by Andy and John, that do various things like taking a Bayesian approach to deciding which models are good and to coming up with a rule that performs well in some general sense.  The general conclusion that some of these rules do pretty well across a bunch of models comes not only out of an ad hoc approach to running the rules in a bunch of models and looking at the results, but also from more formalized approaches to computing robust policy rules.  Now, it is true that the results are sensitive to the collection of models you start with, and that’s very important.  And the models in the Philadelphia memo were all modern DSGE models with a little FRB/US thrown in, which is a little different than the classic academic DSGE model, I guess. I carefully didn’t say across all kinds of models.  I said across conventional models, but that doesn’t span the kind of diversity that you’d like to see.  All of these models don’t create financial crises.  All of these models still have pretty rudimentary financial sectors, labor sectors, et cetera.  So the robustness results carry across, but we’d like to have a wider range. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you have any summary comments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. The speaker is discussing different approaches to evaluating policy rules and acknowledging the limitations of the models being used. There is no indication of disagreement or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 39.
 MR. FAUST.  Well, I think it’s a simple topic, as illustrated.  [Laughter] One of the papers I just mentioned by Andy Levin and John Williams on the robustness of simple rules says in the conclusion that because of the strength of the results, it should be easy for a group of policymakers that have different views of the economy but similar views on the objectives of policy to come up with a rule they all agree on.  And I really wanted to finish up with John providing some additional perspective on that quote from his paper, which I found more and more amusing as this process went on.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. The speaker mentions a paper by Andy Levin and John Williams that suggests it should be easy for policymakers to come up with a rule they all agree on. The speaker finds it amusing, but there is no direct disagreement or contention expressed.


Passage number 40.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  As do I.  [Laughter]   July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I think one basic point here is that we are in an unusual situation not only due to the zero lower bound, but also due to structural changes and large shocks to the economy that make it unlikely that a simple rule will reliably achieve all the results you want.  Nevertheless, it is useful to look at these benchmarks, and, again, I appreciate the staff’s good work.  Thank you.  Let me turn now to item 2 and welcome Simon Potter to his new role and ask him to present the report on financial market developments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Williams agrees with the points being made and expresses appreciation for the staff's work.


Passage number 41.
 MR. POTTER.  This is going to be in the 3-to-30-year sector.  Is that right, Lorie. MS. LOGAN.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Potter is confirming information with Lorie, and she affirms that his statement is correct.


Passage number 42.
 MR. POTTER.  It’s in the 3-to-30-year sector.  So we’re excluding, remember, the 0-to-3-year sector where there’s a large amount of issuance of the next few years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply provides a clarification or reminder about excluding the 0-to-3-year sector when discussing the 3-to-30-year sector. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 43.
 MR. FISHER.  But you had a footnote to that.  Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. You said at the end of your comment on 19, “We would end up owning 54 percent”—could you repeat that, please.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is simply asking for a clarification or repetition of a statement made by the Chairman.


Passage number 44.
 MR. POTTER. That would be 54 percent of outstanding Treasury securities between 3 and 30 years.  That would include continuing with the maturity extension program, which, remember, is buying long-term securities as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply provides information about the percentage of outstanding Treasury securities and mentions the continuation of a specific program.


Passage number 45.
 MR. FISHER.  And you gave a figure for MBS as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 46.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes.  That was— MS. LOGAN.  Forty percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply provides a response to a question.


Passage number 47.
 MR. FISHER.  Of outstanding MBS.  Thank you very much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This is a simple statement of thanks and does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 48.
 MR. POTTER. Just to be clear, that’s a capacity including some of the things that would be hard to readily purchase.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement by Mr. Potter is simply seeking clarification about the capacity, without expressing any disagreement or conflicting viewpoint.


Passage number 49.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply states a response of gratitude followed by a request for other questions.


Passage number 50.
 July 31–MR. LACKER.  How does the $100 billion average gross issuance pace compare with the recent past, and how much of that represents the Treasury’s avowed interest in extending the maturity of their issuance.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 51.
 MR. POTTER.  We’ve assumed that the issuance pattern stays constant going forward.  That’s a conditioning assumption we’ve been making for some time.  That’s been a good assumption so far.  It could obviously change going forward.  And if they decided to issue more in the 3-to-30-year sector, that would give us more purchasable capacity then.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

The passage does not contain any specific contention or disagreement. It is mainly discussing a hypothetical situation and potential changes in the issuance pattern.


Passage number 52.
 MR. LACKER.  My recollection is that Treasury has announced an intention to do that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply states his recollection regarding a decision made by Treasury.


Passage number 53.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes, but slowly over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states a fact or acknowledges a situation.


Passage number 54.
 MR. LACKER.  Slowly over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not mention any disagreement or contention between individuals or ideas. It simply states that something is happening slowly over time.


Passage number 55.
 MR. POTTER. The standard answer we’ve given—this question’s come up a lot—is this is a deviation relative to what’s already priced in that market participants expect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating a standard answer that has been given previously in response to a frequently asked question.


Passage number 56.
 MR. LACKER.  What’s a deviation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply poses the question, "What’s a deviation?" without any conflicting views or arguments.


Passage number 57.
 MR. POTTER.  Any kind of LSAP purchase that we would do.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 58.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Treasury is not adjusting to what we do.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the Treasury is not adjusting to something unspecified.


Passage number 59.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes.  It’s not adjusting to us.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Potter, simply states that something is not adjusting to them without any argument or opposition.


Passage number 60.
 MR. LACKER.  No, I’m just wondering to what extent that average gross issuance reflects Treasury extending it.  So you’re saying it’s not.  It’s just a current pace.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker is simply seeking clarification and asking for further information.


Passage number 61.
 MR. POTTER. Is that right, Seth.  It was the current pace. So there will be some slight increase.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is stating a fact about the current pace and predicting a slight increase in the future. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 62.
 MR. CARPENTER.  That’s right.  The staff forecast that is in these numbers is based on a variety of estimates based on everything that Treasury has been doing so far.  The numbers are   July 31–consistent with the Tealbook estimate that is based on historical Treasury issuance patterns and the CBO’s estimates of issuance.  The CBO is probably on the lower side. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply discussing the staff forecast and various estimates being considered.


Passage number 63.
 MR. PLOSSER.  You mentioned that you had a new category that you asked about in the dealer survey, so-called “new tools.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 64.
” MR. POTTER.  That’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement expressed in the passage. The statement "That's correct" acknowledges agreement with a previous statement, showing alignment rather than disagreement.


Passage number 65.
 MR. PLOSSER. I guess I have a two-part question maybe for you and maybe Bill English:  (a) in the dealer survey, did you allude to what new tools those might be.  You did mention in your comments that one thing might be some comparable tool to what the Bank of England instituted.  I’d like to know what was mentioned in the survey.  And (b) I’d like to know if, in fact, New York or the Board is exploring new tools, and obviously what things are under consideration.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a question with two parts, asking for information about the dealer survey and whether New York or the Board is exploring new tools. There is no contention or disagreement evident in the passage.


Passage number 66.
 MR. POTTER. What we did is we took the exact phrasing in the June minutes—the exact phrasing, no words added or anything else—and then the dealers were free in the free response section to tell us a little bit what they thought the Fed might be doing, and that’s where they mentioned the Bank of England program.  I think the Chairman mentioned it in his press conference as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply providing information about the process of obtaining responses from dealers and mentions the Bank of England program as an example. There is no contention or disagreement present in the passage.


Passage number 67.
 MR. PLOSSER. Is that under active consideration and study or are there other things that are being considered that would be classified as new tools.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is asking for clarification about the current consideration and study of certain tools.


Passage number 68.
 MR. ENGLISH. We have staff working on thinking about tools along the lines of the Bank of England program and other ways of potentially using the discount window to provide liquidity, to encourage lending.  That thinking is still at an early stage, but we’re certainly actively pursuing it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that they are actively pursuing the idea of using the discount window to provide liquidity and encourage lending, but it is still at an early stage of thinking.


Passage number 69.
 July 31–MR. PLOSSER.  Anything else other than the discount window-related lending.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not mention any disagreement or contention. It simply mentions the topic of discussion, which is discount window-related lending.


Passage number 70.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I don’t think so.  It’s all tied into the discount window.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. English is expressing his opinion on the subject.


Passage number 71.
 MR. POTTER.  We could check if the dealers have sent us other ideas. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE. In looking at figure 2, the Probability Distribution of First Increase in Federal Funds Target Rate, I’m curious about what rule we think the dealers are using to come up with their estimates of when we’re going to lift off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply consists of Mr. Potter suggesting a course of action and Governor Duke expressing curiosity about a particular figure.


Passage number 72.
 MR. POTTER.  That’s a really interesting question.  We’ve looked at the responses to this question to see if they make sense so we can convert them into a number of months until the fed funds target will be increased, and it seems to make sense, surprisingly.  This is pooled across the 20 assessments that the dealers make, and by now if you convert this into an expected time we’ll be at the zero bound, it’s the longest it’s been since we’ve been asking this question. MS. DUKE.  So do we then impute it back to some rule. I’m curious about the degree to which we think they’re being influenced by things like an expectation that Hilsensrath was right in his article or an expectation that this newsletter seems to have more insight than another, and kind of talking to each other about the rules that might apply.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a discussion between individuals who are analyzing data and trying to understand the factors influencing responses to a question. They are curious about the possible influences and are discussing how to interpret the information they have.


Passage number 73.
 MR. POTTER.  This survey is sent out the week before the pre-FOMC week, and we usually collect the data on the Monday of the pre-FOMC week.  So it’s usually not influenced by some of the reports that come out in the week before the FOMC meeting. MS. DUKE. Then would this imply really a significant downgrade in the forecast as they move that out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 74.
 MR. POTTER.  They move that forecast fairly similar to the Board staff.  So I wouldn’t say it’s a significant downgrade, but I think what they’re looking at is January, the last time that July 31–the forward guidance was changed.  Last time, the forward guidance lasted for about five months and was changed again. So they might be expecting something like that to happen.  How we separate out their interpretation of the forward guidance from what they view the economic prospects to be would be difficult to do. MS. DUKE. Would it be fair to say this is some guide of how they’re interpreting the relationship between the statement and the fed funds projections that are in the SEP and learning as they go.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speakers are discussing the interpretation of the forward guidance and how it relates to the fed funds projections. They are simply trying to understand the thought process behind the forecast and the potential changes in the forward guidance.


Passage number 75.
 MR. POTTER.  Possibly. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Those projections are highly correlated with the fed funds futures and other market indicators.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show contention or disagreement. It is simply a statement and a response to a statement.


Passage number 76.
 MR. POTTER.  That’s right. MS. DUKE. I had two other questions.  The next one has to do with the gross issuance particularly in the MBS market. It would seem to me it’s easier to project the issuance in the Treasury market than it is in the MBS market, where I’m assuming that it will be affected by the capacity of originators, the refi programs, and then once refis are over with, just the pure purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a conversation between two people discussing their understanding of the issuance in the MBS market.


Passage number 77.
 MR. POTTER.  I have confidence in the short run in the gross issuance in the agency MBS market being quite strong.  The memo was reasonably clear that in year two we have less confidence.  There is model error in the prepayment speed, we could affect the total that we’re buying because of the reinvestments, and the conditioning assumptions are more likely to deviate in practice from what we assume. July 31–MS. DUKE.  Thanks.  And then my final question has to do with what I think I heard about the BIS when other rates went negative.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply a conversation between two individuals discussing their confidence in the agency MBS market and potential issues with prepayment speeds and conditioning assumptions.


Passage number 78.
 MR. POTTER.  They were charging us minus 15 basis points.  So we withdrew that deposit. MS. DUKE. Interestingly, what I’ve heard about that is the reason they charged the negative rates was to make sure that they didn’t get all of the money that was coming through.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 79.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes.  That would be one of the issues with the cut in the deposit rate that the ECB did.  For some investors, it’s hard to access accounts that are showing zero rates rather than negative. MS. DUKE.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Both Mr. Potter and Ms. Duke are discussing the potential issues and challenges related to the cut in the deposit rate by the ECB.


Passage number 80.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, Governor Duke touched on something I was going to ask about, throwing out a phrase “new tools” without definition—but you have some examples.  We were referred to the discount window.  The Bank of England (BOE) has its Funding for Lending.  Even though there are vast legal differences and vast differences between the Treasury and the Exchequer and the relationship between the BOE and the central bank, it does make me wonder about the value of the probability of additional policy action when they don’t even define what new tools are.  It’s just a buzz word, and at least it leads me to question its value.  The other tools that we have are well known, and there’s a drift to what we do and an understanding, but that’s my comment. The question I have—and this is just something maybe for you to look at, Simon, or someone on your staff—relates to the equity markets.  As I look at the numbers, we’ve seen significant sales in domestic equity mutual funds. I’m trying to get my arms wrapped around theJuly 31–effect this has on savers and on the wealth function.  My sense is that trading is increasingly concentrated in lesser hands or being distributed to a lesser population base, but I’m not sure.  One has to look at the ETF market, for example.  How much is used for institutional purposes in hedging and are some substitutions taking effect between ETFs for the average citizen or the normal mutual fund holder.  Not now, but I wonder if you could give us a little briefing on that at some point, unless you wish to give it to us now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 81.
 MR. POTTER.  I know very little about it right now that would allow me to tell you anything about it, but we can look into it.  It might be quite difficult to be able to give you a satisfactory answer when the question has something to do with flows and who the ultimate investor actually might be, but we can characterize some parts of it, and there might be something interesting there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states that they have limited knowledge about the topic and acknowledges the potential difficulty in providing a satisfactory answer.


Passage number 82.
 MR. FISHER.  I’m interested just because it helps shape my understanding of what the wealth effect is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher simply expresses his interest in understanding the concept of the wealth effect.


Passage number 83.
 MR. POTTER.  Completely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage only mentions Mr. Potter without providing any information about his actions, opinions, or any other details that could generate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 84.
 MR. FISHER.  I’d be grateful.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing gratitude and thanking someone.


Passage number 85.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, Mr. Chairman. A couple of quick questions about table 19.  I should know this, but what fraction of the 3-to 30-year maturity structure do we currently own.  So we’re going to go to 54 percent at the end of two years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.  The passage is not expressing contention or disagreement. It is simply a statement of a question being asked by Mr. Kocherlakota.


Passage number 86.
 MR. POTTER.  Let me check. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think I recall Brian saying it was 35; is that right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 87.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes, it looks like that, but we’ve got it broken out by different sectors.July 31–MS. LOGAN.  It’s about 35 percent, and the 10-to 20-year sector is projected to go to 41 percent and 20-to-30-year to 36 percent by the end of the month.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The individuals are discussing different sectors and projected percentages, but there is no indication of disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 88.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you.  And my next question/comment is that it would be useful to tell us something about how this hypothetical LSAP program would translate into projections for income for the Federal Reserve.  I didn’t see that in the memo that you circulated, but that would be interesting to think through.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 89.
 MR. POTTER. I think that most people around this table should be able to work it out a little bit.  Income will go up in the short run from a large LSAP and then will go down because we have to pay interest on a much larger amount of reserves.  And then the fine details of it are that if you went for the whole $2.5 trillion, it’s likely that that would produce a deferred asset toward the end.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is presenting their thoughts and analysis on a specific topic without conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 90.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, I think, at least for me, it would be useful to have those kinds of quantitative details more fleshed out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own opinion and stating that they personally would find it helpful to have more specific details.


Passage number 91.
 MR. POTTER.  We can provide them for you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Have we done those.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Potter is offering to provide something without any opposition or argument.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 92.
 MR. POTTER.  We’ve done it for alternative A in the Tealbook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: The presence of the word "but" in the next sentence suggests that there is contention or disagreement in the passage. However, without further context, it is unclear who may hold a different opinion or what the disagreement is about.


Passage number 93.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I had staff look into that for alternative A in the Tealbook, and the remittances to the Treasury are higher in the near term, as was said, and then decline, and trough at a little under $10 billion.  So the trough is lower than in the case without the LSAP, but still at a positive value.  Clearly, the cumulative amount increases some.  The larger the LSAP you take on, the closer you come to ultimately getting to zero remittances, and we’ll aim to provide more information on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the findings from the staff's research without expressing any disagreement or debate.


Passage number 94.
July 31–MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, I think knowing something about the risks of that would be not necessarily to argue that’s determinative in any way, but I think it’s a useful piece of information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that knowing something about the risks is considered useful information.


Passage number 95.
 MR. ENGLISH. I agree.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. English, states that he agrees with something, but there is no mention or indication of any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 96.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  Mr. Chairman, it would also be helpful to have that information under different interest rate scenarios because obviously you’re making some assumption about where longer-term rates are going to be, especially in those out-years.  So it would be helpful to have some different interest rates scenarios.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply requesting additional information to have a better understanding of the situation.


Passage number 97.
 MR. POTTER.  We are ready to do that, and we will present a full range there, both, I think, higher interest rates and lower interest rates in the sense that if we had a program that lasted for two years, that might be consistent with lower rates for longer, and we should look at that particular scenario as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Potter is merely stating that they are prepared to present a range of options, including both higher and lower interest rates. He suggests considering a scenario with lower rates for a longer duration.


Passage number 98.
 MR. FISHER.  The income and price components as well, the capital loss.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple statement made by Mr. Fisher.


Passage number 99.
 MR. POTTER.  That is in the standard program that we produce, and so that would be if we marked the portfolio to market.  The footnote would be another place showing the fair value. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  [No response]  I need a motion to ratify domestic open market operations since June. MS. YELLEN.  So moved. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Without objection.  Okay.  Thank you.  I understand coffee is ready.  We could come back at 3:20.  Thank you. [Coffee break]   July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Why don’t we recommence.  You have a number of handouts.  I’ll ask Bill English to describe what you have in front of you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of statements and actions related to a meeting or discussion that do not involve any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 100.
 MR. ENGLISH.  We distributed four handouts during the break.  You should have one that says “Forecast Summary.”  You should have one that says “Consensus Forecast Exercise.”  You should have a single page of charts, and one that has a Class I FOMC cover on it.  That last one is some slightly revised versions of the policy alternatives that I wanted you to have for your reference. We have very small changes to paragraphs 1 and 2 in alternatives A and B, just to catch up with the BEA’s release on Friday.  So I wanted you to have those, and I’ll be working from this version in my remarks tomorrow. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you very much. We are now at item 3, the economic situation, and I’ll turn to David Wilcox.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply giving a description of the handouts that were distributed and providing some additional information about the changes made to the policy alternatives.


Passage number 101.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I have a question on food prices.  Can you give us some sense of magnitude of the increase.  And related to that, how does ethanol fit into this. If corn  July 31–prices go up, does ethanol get priced out of the market, and so more corn actually gets used for consumption for food.  I’m just trying to understand how this works if prices keep going up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and trying to understand the relationship between food prices, ethanol, and corn consumption.


Passage number 102.
 MR. KAMIN. Referring to your first question on the magnitude of food prices, at least one aggregate—the Commodity Research Bureau (CRB) aggregate of daily food prices—has gone up roughly 20 percent from early June.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is stating a fact about the increase in the CRB aggregate of daily food prices.


Passage number 103.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I am trying to think about it more in terms of the dollar magnitude of the shock.  For example, think about it as we do oil prices where it’s a little bit over $1 billion per penny on gasoline prices.  So if corn prices double, what does that really mean for disposable income.  I’m just trying to get a sense of whether it is a big shock or a little shock, with an automatic equilibrating mechanism like ethanol production just evaporates because you can’t sell ethanol at really high corn prices.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No - There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing their thought process and trying to determine the potential impact of a shock on disposable income.


Passage number 104.
 MR. WILCOX.  I don’t know the answer in terms of dollar magnitudes.  What I do know is that we had much bigger run-ups in grain prices in 2010 and in 2008.  Although the level of grain prices now is higher than it was then, the jump from the level when the drought began to emerge to now is, at this point, smaller.  We are calibrating our projection off futures prices, so we are taking our judgment from those who are placing real bets on this.  We are also monitoring crop yield estimates from the USDA. The pass-through is pretty limited because in retail food prices the commodity share is a reasonably small part.  And the other thing that is important to keep in mind is that the pass-through occurs over a fairly lengthy period of time.  So this is not like crude oil prices getting into gasoline, which happens pretty quickly.  We think that the effect is going to show up in retail food prices toward the end of this year and in the early part of next year.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents information about grain prices and their potential impact on retail food prices.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 105.
 July 31–VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Does farm income go up, or does farm income come down.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents two opposing possibilities regarding farm income - whether it goes up or comes down.


Passage number 106.
 MR. WILCOX.  We think that farm income is going to go up.  The elasticity of demand we think is less than one.  So prices are, we think, going to go up by more than quantities go down.  Those farmers who still have a crop to sell are going to do well, and, in the aggregate, the farm sector is going to have a positive boost to income.  We have raised our food price projection by just a few tenths this year, and by about 1 percentage point over the four quarters of next year, in response to these developments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting their belief and projection about the increase in farm income and the expected rise in prices. There is no conflicting viewpoint mentioned.


Passage number 107.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So this is a pretty modest shock at this point in time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It simply states that the shock being discussed is relatively small or insignificant in the present moment.


Passage number 108.
 MR. WILCOX.  As hard as it is for, obviously, millions of farming families in the middle of the country, at the aggregate level for retail food prices, at this point—with a lot of uncertainty still surrounding what the outcome will be—this is a reasonably modest development.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that although it is hard for farming families, the impact on retail food prices at the aggregate level is reasonably modest.


Passage number 109.
 MR. KAMIN.  To echo David’s point, in terms of the effect on the foreign economies, again, what we have seen so far has not been enough to meaningfully lead us to nudge up our inflation forecast, nor have we translated that into strong implications for income abroad at this point.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers are expressing similar views about the impact of the economy on inflation forecast and income abroad.


Passage number 110.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  A question for David Wilcox.  If I understand your discussion of the fiscal cliff, you assume it will be avoided in the baseline, but you treat it as a risk to the baseline.  Are you picking up any indications that it is already here. That is to say, in terms of employment, investment, contract renewal, or procurement, have you seen any indications that there is a discounting of the possibility of it that is already affecting behavior in advance of the deadline.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 111.
 July 31–MR. WILCOX.  We haven’t allowed for any of that. It might become increasingly difficult to maintain that assumption.  For example, I would note that this morning’s Washington Post ran a first-page article about the WARN Act indicating that there is a lot of controversy about whether employers will be required to send out notifications, I think it is 60 days in advance.  At the moment, we haven’t allowed for any sort of discounting back to now.  We have maintained the assumption that nothing is going to happen in advance of the election, and that producers and households will have that same assumption for the moment.  It is going to be something that we will have to evaluate on an ongoing basis. Let me just be really clear about what we assume in the baseline and what is in the fiscal cliff scenario.  We have a big step up in fiscal contraction, even in the baseline, because we have the 2 percentage point temporary payroll tax cut expiring, as under current law.  And we have the emergency unemployment compensation program expiring at the end of the year, as under current law. That’s quite a bit of current-law contraction going into force.  In addition, we have the automatic sequestration being replaced by an equivalent set of federal spending cuts that accrue over the period between now and, I think, 2022.  That represents a less abrupt restraint on aggregate demand on New Year’s Eve at the end of this year than would occur under sequestration, but there is quite a bit of spending reduction built into our baseline.  The most prominent pieces that are incremental to the spending reduction are the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, which are scheduled to expire, and in our baseline projection we have assumed that those are extended.  To happen, that extension requires affirmative legislative action.  So if the Congress does nothing, those tax cuts expire.  There are a number of other pieces of fiscal restraint that occur, too, but the expiration of the tax cuts is the biggest single piece that will go into effect in the cliff scenario that isn’t already incorporated in our baseline assumption. July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage mentions "controversy" and "disagreement" about whether employers will be required to send out notifications under the WARN Act.


Passage number 112.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  A question for David.  And your forecast summary chart might be useful, if anybody has a follow-up question.  I thought you included some nice tables in the Tealbook this time on probabilities of particular events and risks that we could face.  A particular tabulation that I thought was very interesting was your calculation of the probability that inflation would exceed 3 percent.  That is pretty low in terms of risk, in the 5 to 10 percent range. I’ve got a different tabulation that I’m interested in, though, and it is related to looking at the constrained optimal control path—and Jon Faust’s discussion had it in his charts— where you could see that inflation tops out at about 2.3 percent.  And it is just convenient that that actually seems to be what your PCE prices forecast chart has as its upper bound.  Inflation is stochastic, it is not fully controllable, and yet I have trouble thinking about it and fully embracing what that really means. But it seems clear from this chart and your tables that the standard deviation of the inflation forecast is about 1 percentage point, which means that 2.3 percent is just about the top of this range of a 70 percent interval.  When we have an inflation objective of 2 percent, how likely is it that we would be able to avoid inflation above 2.3 percent. It is really not very well controlled, and we should expect to visit periods above 2.3 percent more often than we might really take on board.  When I look at the optimal control path and see 2.3 percent, I say, well, that has got a lot of perfect foresight embedded in it and it abstracts from uncertainty.  But that outcome is not that unlikely in a general distribution of inflation outcomes.  Or another way to think about this is if you wanted to mean adjust this process so that 2.3 percent really was at the top of a 70 percent interval, it would be a lot like the inflation projection that you have here. It would be more like targeting 1½ percent. Is that a reasonable way to think through some of those issues or tensions.  Any thoughts you have there would be welcome.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is asking for clarification and expressing their thoughts on the topic being discussed.


Passage number 113.
   July 31–MR. WILCOX.  I don’t have a lot to add to your observations.  The one important point that I would make is that the staff projection is constructed against a backdrop in which we need a mechanical assumption for monetary policy.  So we construct that using the estimated outcome-based rule.  And I think that is the central explanation for why, at least over the period that is shown here, our inflation projection is a little lower than is the case under the constrained optimal control simulation. I should note that there is no particular virtue in that specific rule, and my position has always been that if the Committee gave us some indication of an alternative rule that would better capture the center of gravity of the Committee’s thinking, we would be very happy to adopt that rule.  We could array for you exactly the same view about the fundamental underlying economic forces driving the macroeconomy using a different policy assumption, and we would show different projections.  These are conditional forecasts based on a particular specification of a rule to which I feel no special affinity or fidelity.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with the observations made and explains that the inflation projection is lower due to the use of a specific rule for monetary policy. The speaker also expresses willingness to adopt a different rule if suggested by the Committee.


Passage number 114.
 MR. EVANS.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response "Thanks" indicates gratitude or acknowledgement, but does not suggest any disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 115.
 MR. FISHER.  Just to Vice Chairman Dudley’s question, I think food at home is about 7½ percent of PCE and about 8.6 percent of CPI.  And then, if you add food away from home, that’s another 5 percent, which is highly attenuated, as pointed out earlier, and takes a long way to work its way into the system. But what my private contacts are telling me is that, as you pointed out, rationing has not yet occurred; it is still not as extreme as it was before.  Should rationing begin to occur, you might have another 15 percent movement in prices.  The price movement has been very sharp, but, Vice Chairman Dudley, as far as the inflation impact—if that was your question—it is a lesser weight in the system.July 31–And on the energy side, I just wanted to point out to Steve Kamin that, for what it’s worth, my industry contacts aren’t as worried about the specific issue that you mentioned.  The issue they are more focused on has been the building of inventories.  We have about 1.6 billion barrels worldwide, according to the best estimates.  By the way, the best and only estimates you can really get come from the Exxon Intelligence Unit.  That is above the 1.1 billion barrels we had at the end of 2011.  The Chinese have been building their strategic reserve.  They are aiming for 300 million barrels.  They have 280 million, by the best intelligence that we can get.  We are chock full of oil.  Iran has about 40 million barrels floating inventory.  So the expectation in the industry, given that we have lesser demand; Chinese demand, which has been running about 400,000 barrels a day, has been to fill their strategic reserve, offset by the decline in consumption here and in Europe, so it is kind of a wash.  And setting aside the forward yield curve and the futures curve, the expectation in the industry is very little pricing power as these inventory builds run their course.  It is less concerned about what passes through the Straits of Hormuz, which is highly paid attention to by the media.  In terms of those that are planning their cap-ex, their refinery throughput, and so on, they are really looking at where the supplies may come from.  And there is a significant amount of supply relative to demand presently.  So for what it’s worth, again, these are just pixels in a broader picture.  They come from the actors on the scene.  There is a very low expectation of significant sustainable upward price pressure on oil.  Natural gas, we didn’t talk about.  We can defer that until a later conversation, but I wanted to point that out to you for what it’s worth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker's private contacts are telling him that rationing has not yet occurred, while Vice Chairman Dudley seems to have asked a question about the impact of inflation. Additionally, the speaker's industry contacts are not as worried about a specific issue mentioned by Steve Kamin.


Passage number 116.
 MR. KAMIN.  No.  I think it’s useful, and it is actually consistent with what the futures markets are saying; the futures market curve is downward sloping.  And so the implication is that whatever factors have pushed up oil prices recently are temporary—more likely to be some kind July 31–of idiosyncratic, transitory geopolitical risks—and that going forward the anticipation in the markets is indeed that oil prices will settle back down. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker, Mr. Kamin, is expressing agreement with the notion that oil prices will settle back down based on the information from futures markets. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 117.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have two questions.  One, I want to follow up on President Lockhart’s question about the issue of the fiscal cliff. I thought his question— excuse me for paraphrasing—in part has to do with the fact that if the data we see today already reflect a slowing economy because people are anticipating a fiscal cliff and changing their behaviors now, then there is a question of how you would interpret the current data versus add-on effects that would come when the fiscal cliff actually occurs.  I thought his question was, how are you parsing that assessment.  Or are you assuming that the fiscal cliff is irrelevant until it actually occurs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply a question being asked by Mr. Plosser.


Passage number 118.
 MR. WILCOX.  The latter, for the moment.  But what I had tried to indicate to President Lockhart was that we are not going to be dogmatically dug in on the view that no matter what happens we are not going to assume any sort of fiscal cliff confidence effects or anything like that, until it happens.  It is a little hard, frankly, for me to judge, given that I live inside the Beltway and am subjected to orders of magnitude more discussion about this than I think businesses around the country and, to be sure, households are; it is hard to discuss.  Setting that aside for the moment, I still think ours is the best assumption.  But it is something we are going to have to watch.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 119.
 MR. PLOSSER.  I guess the point is that if you believe there was already some anticipation or preparatory behavior occurring, then you might question whether or not that is leading you to draw your fundamental forecast lower than it might otherwise have been, and it could change the way the forecast profile looks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Plosser is raising a hypothetical scenario and considering the potential impact it could have on forecast profiles. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 120.
 July 31–MR. WILCOX.  I think it’s a fair question.  If it’s there now—this is just intuition—my guess is that it is a pretty subtle effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Wilcox is expressing his opinion about a question and making a guess based on his intuition.


Passage number 121.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes.  I don’t have any idea.  I just wanted to clarify the underlying assumptions that are going into this and how changes in that might affect the forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. Mr. Plosser is simply seeking clarification and wanting to understand the underlying assumptions and their potential impact on the forecast.


Passage number 122.
 MR. WILCOX.  We are going to be open to doing the best that we possibly can to take on board any sort of evidence.  There is an epistemological question; I just don’t know exactly how we will measure that effect going forward.  But I think it is completely fair that that is something we are going to have to be sensitive to.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges the need to consider evidence and is unsure about how to measure the effect, but overall agrees that it is something that needs to be considered.


Passage number 123.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes.  It would be very hard to do, but it’s something we should think about.  Turning to my second question, one of the things I always find interesting in the Tealbook are the alternative scenarios that get played out.  I had a particular question about one of them.  In most of them, you talk about what the implicit assumptions are underlying the different scenarios, but the European Crisis with Severe Spillovers left me a little puzzled, so I’d like a little explanation of what went into that.  You’ve got a response where GDP is off something like 5½ percentage points and the unemployment rate is going up to over 11 percent.  At the same time, we know that we are unlikely to get that much effect just from trade channels.  What I am curious about is what your thinking is on that scenario. Were the results the model per se playing out, or were there add factors that you have played in, and, through what channels did you impose the spillover effects that led to these very sharp deteriorations in that scenario.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and more information.


Passage number 124.
 MR. KAMIN. You are entirely right that if you just took a standard kind of model where you put in the very most proximate effects of some shock, it would not necessarily give you the amount of spillovers, which are very severe, that you see in that scenario.  There is a question, how do you even start to model something so complex and so far-reaching.  And so we, like I   July 31–think most analysts in the business that are thinking about modeling this cataclysm, take our cue—some general guidance—from what happened during Lehman Brothers and its aftermath.  That is, in some sense, our model for how a severe financial shock can reverberate through the system. In practice, first of all, what we have done is put in extremely large shocks in Europe.  These are exogenous, upward shocks to the level of credit spreads in those economies, and that gives you a large contraction in output.  We have augmented that with confidence shocks in Europe that give you a further decline in confidence there.  In addition to that, we have an upward shock to the value of the dollar or, conversely, a downward shock to the value of the euro.  Those different shocks give you a very substantial trade effect from Europe on the United States because you have the contraction in European GDP as well as the increase in the dollar. On top of that, recognizing how well linked financial markets are in the United States and Europe—and that is something we also saw during Lehman Brothers—we have augmented the trade effects with substantial, although not as great, credit spread shocks in the United States that are offset, to a small degree, by shocks that reduce U.S. Treasury yields.  Plus, I believe, we have some additional, albeit smaller, confidence shocks in the United States.  And then, the rest of the model responses are indeed endogenous.  In sum, what you get is a scenario of the types of outcomes we would expect to see if things truly went adversely in Europe.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the approach to modeling the effects of a severe financial shock.


Passage number 125.
 MR. PLOSSER. To give me an idea, when you say you increase credit spreads by a large amount, (a) give me an idea of what the number is, and (b) across all securities or over certain types of securities.   I’m just looking for a ballpark.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser simply asks for clarification and more specific information.


Passage number 126.
 MR. KAMIN. Yes.  For Europe it is a 400 basis point credit shock.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is a straightforward assertion of a fact or viewpoint without any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 127.
 MR. PLOSSER.  To sovereigns or corporates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there does not appear to be any contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply states that Mr. Plosser is referring to sovereigns or corporates without expressing any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 128.
   July 31–MR. KAMIN.  This is actually to corporate spreads over safe German securities.  Then, the German security lowers by 100 basis points, so you get a net of 300 basis points.  And then, in the United States, it is a 200 or 300 basis point shock to corporate spreads offset by a roughly 50 basis point downward shock to the Treasury yields.  The model doesn’t have separate channels for credit spreads versus equities, but it is assumed that the same shock to interest rates that we have just been talking about also basically increases equity risk premiums and leads to a comparable reduction in equity prices commensurate with the credit spread increase, both in Europe and the United States.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is explaining how a shock to interest rates impacts corporate spreads and equity prices in both Europe and the United States.


Passage number 129.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you.  That is a good answer.  I appreciate that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses gratitude and appreciation towards President Bullard's response.


Passage number 130.
 MR. BULLARD.  If I could just follow up on that question.  I have often wondered about these forecast confidence intervals and alternative scenarios.  And so in that scenario, the paths all go outside the 90 percent confidence bands.  There is only 5 percent on that side I guess, so does that mean that you are assigning less than 5 percent of probability to that event.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is asking for clarification and seeking information, showing curiosity rather than disagreement.


Passage number 131.
 MR. KAMIN.  David can correct me, but I would interpret that as meaning this is an extraordinary event that is well outside the typical stochastic bounds that we have.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Kamin, is simply sharing his interpretation of the situation.


Passage number 132.
 MR. BULLARD.  Well, just looking at the picture. It is actually so far outside that it would be at the 99.9 percentile, so it would be way outside.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply providing an observation or analysis based on a picture.


Passage number 133.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  The seemingly normal distribution.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Reifschneider.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 134.
 MR. WILCOX.  I think that if you took our forecast track record literally, that interpretation would be correct.  I would also say that one of the things that we learned in 2007, 2008, and 2009 was that sometimes our imagination is not sufficiently rich to encompass  July 31–everything that can happen, and that these confidence intervals, which are generated over what period, the last 20, 25, 30 years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker acknowledges that there is a limitation to their forecast track record and that their imagination is not always sufficient to predict everything that can happen. This implies a potential disagreement or contention in the accuracy of the forecasts.


Passage number 135.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. These are taking shocks from the 1968 to 2011 period.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no clear indication of contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple statement presenting a time range for the shocks.


Passage number 136.
 MR. WILCOX.  Okay.  I’d say that a lot of bad stuff happened over that period, but I’m not sure that the kind of cataclysm that’s involved here with the European crisis with severe spillovers is really well captured in the error track record.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply expresses uncertainty about whether the severity of the European crisis and its spillover effects can be accurately represented in the error track record.


Passage number 137.
 MR. BULLARD.  I would summarize that as saying that a large part of the confidence intervals are constructed from the period of the Great Moderation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The speaker is summarizing and making a statement about the construction of confidence intervals during the period of the Great Moderation. There is no indication of contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 138.
 MR. WILCOX.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 139.
 MR. BULLARD.  And, therefore, they’re going to look a little constricted compared with maybe the true amount of uncertainty that might be sitting there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement made by Mr. Bullard about a situation without any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 140.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Actually I’d put it slightly differently.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their perspective and suggesting a different approach to the topic being discussed.


Passage number 141.
  Not to keep citing work that I’ve done with John, but a paper that we did— MR. WILLIAMS.  That’s okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response "That's okay" suggests agreement or acceptance.


Passage number 142.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  You’ll like it, yes.  This is a paper we did about a year or so ago in which we took six different models—two DSGE models, FRB/US, and three statistical models—and found that the episode that we are still in, but started in 2008, is way outside the probability bands that you’d get from a whole set of representative models.  And our conclusion from that was that the standard models that the whole profession has been using just underestimate the probability of extreme tail events.  Either that or we’re unbelievably unlucky, take your pick.  Well you can be both.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply describing a study and presenting the conclusion reached by the researchers.


Passage number 143.
  [Laughter] MR. LACKER.  Yes, in both cases we’re unlucky.  We’re unlucky to have the bad model.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of a statement and a response, both expressing agreement or alignment.


Passage number 144.
 MR. POTTER.  So the LSAP with greater duration is a little bit light in 3-to 6-year purchases.  It’s going to replicate the MEP in terms of the amount of duration it takes out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the LSAP and MEP.


Passage number 145.
 MR. FISHER.  Sorry. It’s a little light.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Fisher is expressing an apology, indicating that something is not as he expected or desired. There is no contention or disagreement indicated.


Passage number 146.
 MR. POTTER. It’s a little bit light in the 3-to 6-year range.  It won’t be like LSAP2.  Is that right, Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Potter is simply making a statement and asking for confirmation from Bill.


Passage number 147.
 MR. ENGLISH. I believe that it is longer. The MEP buys in 6-to-30, but then there’s an adjustment because of the sales.  But it’s aiming to be similar in terms of duration removed. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I apologize.  So the greater-duration program is like the MEP basically in maturity of purchases.  The shorter one is like LSAP2; it’s spread broadly across the entire range. I’d be happy to take any questions on this.  Let me just suggest a few things.  First, if you want to make reference to any of this in your go-round, of course, feel free but it’s obviously not required.  Tomorrow we’ll have a fuller discussion of this forecast process, in which we’ll do two things.  One is I’ll ask you, as we would in a real application of this, whether you are comfortable being described by this consensus forecast.  That would be part of   July 31–the discussion we would have if we were to use it.  The concerns or objections of those who are not comfortable would have to be described in the minutes or in the press conference.  And then the second thing we’ll do tomorrow is just have a general discussion of whether we want to continue the experiment, how we might change it, and so on.  But let me now take any questions just about the construction of this.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing information and offering to answer questions, but there is no indication of a disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 148.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  You may choose to defer this question until tomorrow, but my understanding from what you just said is, in steady state, the goal would be to have this consensus forecast be conditional on whatever policy choice has been made by the Committee in the given meeting, is that correct. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, at least within a reasonable range of the forecast made by the Committee.  That’s how you would explain what you anticipate happening, given the policy choices that you’ve made.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification on the goal of having a consensus forecast based on policy choices made by the Committee. The response given confirms the understanding of the speaker.


Passage number 149.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Okay.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any others.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 150.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman, I apologize.  I didn’t quite understand what you said about the extent to which the policy parts of people’s submissions are reflected in the weighting that you used in combining these. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Again, this was a one-time thing where we’re starting up using the SEP.  In the future we’ll start with whatever consensus forecast has already been developed.  But the question is the following:  Suppose, for the sake of argument, that there are N people who agree on the consensus policy path, and that they have a certain expectation about economic growth, inflation, and so on.  Now imagine someone who does not agree with that path and has a very different outlook for the economy conditional on their own view of appropriate  July 31–monetary policy.  It wouldn’t be appropriate to average that person’s outlook with the middle of the Committee because that person basically dissents from the whole forecast, but it’s academic because in practice it didn’t make any difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification on the methodology used in combining policy parts of people's submissions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 151.
 MR. LACKER.  No, I understand.  But, I interpret what we say about the policy path as a forecast of our future policy setting, not as an assumption that we will hold to.  In other words, we’re not restricting it. I’m not restricting my forecast of GDP by assuming that all the shocks come out in a way that the policy equals one path.  I’m just giving an unconditional forecast of GDP and an unconditional forecast of policy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. But you’re not giving an unconditional forecast because you’re using your own view of appropriate monetary policy and that may differ from your own personal forecast of what the Committee will do.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker disagrees with the speaker's interpretation of their policy path as a forecast, stating that it is not a restriction on their forecast and that they are giving an unconditional forecast of GDP and policy. This suggests a difference in viewpoints regarding how to interpret and forecast monetary policy.


Passage number 152.
 MR. LACKER. But I’m also using my own model.  Everyone is using their own model.  So everyone has their own equations in their head, and they’re forecasting a lot of variables. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage states that everyone is using their own model and equations to forecast variables. There is no evident contention or disagreement.


Passage number 153.
 MR. LACKER.  Setting aside policy, you wouldn’t throw out someone’s GDP forecast because they differed on core inflation, would you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Again, it’s a question of what policy you’re assuming.  There are two possible ways to do this.  One is to assume appropriate monetary policy.  If your view of appropriate monetary policy differs radically from the center of the Committee, then you will not agree with the forecast of the center of the Committee.  Another way to do this, which we might consider, would be instead to say, “Here are two or three different possible policy paths or policy rules.  What do you think will happen in each case.”  That’s a different way to do it, but given what I had, which was the appropriate monetary policy assumption, what you wrote   July 31–down for appropriate monetary policy presumably was not your best unbiased forecast of what will actually happen, or maybe it was, but it’s not the same issue.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is discussing different approaches to forecasting GDP based on different policy assumptions.


Passage number 154.
 MR. PLOSSER. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.  Your exhibit 3 was an effort in part to sort of replicate what you might get if you came back to the Committee and said, “Okay.  Here are three scenarios of policy actions.  Give me back your forecast of GDP and inflation under the condition of those assumptions of policy.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I think these pictures here basically accept the consensus forecast and show deviations from that forecast. It would be a different exercise by asking each person around the table, “Here are three or four different policies.  What do you think that would lead to.”  You wouldn’t get the same results.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 155.
 MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman, what would be released to the public. Is it table 1. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We’re now getting into material we can discuss tomorrow, but I assume that what would be released would be only the forecast associated with the policy decision that the Committee actually took at the meeting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, Mr. Bullard is seeking clarification on what information will be released to the public. There is no contention or disagreement evident.


Passage number 156.
 MR. BULLARD.  And what about these fan charts. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And the fan charts, yes.  The fan charts alone are worth quite a bit, in my opinion; they are good to have.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing their opinion about the value of the fan charts.


Passage number 157.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  So the basic vision is that two things would go out.  There would be a table, and there would be some fan charts. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You would get the first lines of table 1, and you would get the fan charts in exhibit 1, and that would be it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply describing a basic vision or plan without any conflicting statements or opinions being mentioned.


Passage number 158.
 MR. FISHER.  You wouldn’t send out exhibit 3 or exhibit 2. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is simply stating that exhibit 3 or exhibit 2 would not be sent out.


Passage number 159.
 July 31–MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Not unless the Committee actually chose one of those alternative policies.  Any other questions. [No response]  Again, tomorrow we will have a fuller discussion of this and how we will proceed.  We’re ready for our economic go-round, and I’ll start with Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply responding to a question and stating that there are no further questions before moving on to a different topic.


Passage number 160.
 MR. LACKER.  It’s a long story, but it is exactly identified. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker simply states that it's a long story but it is exactly identified. President Lockhart's response is not provided, so there is no indication of contention.


Passage number 161.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I took a different approach with my CEO contacts and with my board of directors. I must say, after listening to President Lockhart and President Evans, what popped into my mind was that very old song by Johnny Nash, “I Can See Clearly Now.” I don’t think anybody could argue that they can see more clearly now than they did before.  It is not going to be a bright, sunshiny day. I asked the following question of every contact I spoke with, “As you understand monetary policy, is there anything further the Federal Reserve can do that would impact your desire to expand domestic cap-ex or payroll.”  And to a person, from a 32-employee-sized company to one with over 1 million employees, the answer was “no.”  And let me just quote the CEO of Wal-Mart.  “We need to be able to expand certainty of our costs.  The only thing we know for sure is that fewer people will cost us less.” Let me quote a 32-employee firm. “Additional federal regulations from health care laws and other agencies, and a very negative federal tax situation, have caused us to change our hiring policy.  If overtime is not able to meet production needs, only temporary employees will be utilized.”  President Lockhart pointed out a question about the efficacy of additional monetary stimulus when it was applied.  And it is very hard for me to find, with regard to our dual mandate, a single woman or man who runs a company who feels that we are the problem.  One very important point, Governor Tarullo, is that it is not so much fiscal tightening as it is the demon of all decisionmakers, which is uncertainty.  And one thing we need to take into account is that a one-year fix of the fiscal situation—however that might stem the political concerns in this town and have some immediate impact—does not July 31–help business planners.  Business planners plan cap-ex and payroll expansion over three-year cycles; they don’t plan it on one-year cycles.  Whether they are little or medium-sized or large, they have to take a longer-run view.  And, again, to a person, regardless of size, around our board table, I am continuously hearing that what is of major concern is this massive uncertainty—and it seems to be intensifying—and that the issue is not access to capital. Someone else just pointed out—I think it was Sandy, in what I must admit was a brighter-eyed outlook than I share—that we have seen an expansion of C&I and other loans.  I don’t hear complaints about the cost of capital, nor do I hear concerns about the availability of capital. As anybody can see looking at me, I have no prepared statement to make today.  I have spread papers all around. I will omit, by the way, what I had prepared, which is to point out that of course Texas continues to outperform the rest of the country—that existing home sales are up 18½ percent year to date, that single-family permits rose at a pace of 35 percent through May in my District.  This is despite the negative from our external balances, which I think is the most important point, because we are the leading exporting state.  Our exports were down 2.8 percent for the first half of the year. So, in macroeconomic terms, I don’t expect a lot of “umph” to come from our net exports, nor do I expect to see businesses make decisions, even if we see a little bit of clarity with regard to the fiscal cliff, as we like to think about it.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It is primarily the speaker sharing their own observations and quotes from CEO contacts and board members.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 162.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  In January when we adopted the end of 2014 language, the full SEP range for real GDP for 2012 was 2.1 to 3 percent.  Six months later, and with additional easing through the MEP, the revised consensus growth rate for real GDP in 2012 is 1.8 percent—weaker than any of us thought last January and with more accommodative monetary policy than many of us submitted.  In retrospect, the economic data have come in much softer than any of us thought.  How likely is it that we are repeating this mistake.  I am concerned that while the consensus forecast has been written down from the June SEP, the consensus forecast for this year remains too optimistic.  The July employment report produced only 80,000 jobs, and real final sales rose at only a 1.2 percent rate in the second quarter.  The revised consensus forecast expects real GDP growth to be 2 percent in the second half of this year.  With 2 percent growth in the first quarter, this would imply the weakness of the secondJuly 31–quarter was an anomaly. An alternative viewpoint would be that concerns about Europe and the fiscal cliff intensified in the second quarter, causing households and businesses to retrench and that the second quarter to be much weaker than the first. What is the likelihood that businesses and households will believe that the fiscal cliff or European problems will be of less concern very soon.  My conversations with a wide variety of businesses and financial market participants suggest that they believe the problems will likely intensify in the second half of this year.  They are not anxious to hire or invest until there is much clearer resolution of both problems.  In particular, few on either side of the Atlantic seem confident that Greece is on a sustainable path, or that adequate firewalls exist. Furthermore, I don’t know anyone who expects a quick resolution of the fiscal cliff.  I, unfortunately, agree with this assessment, and, thus, I am concerned that the consensus forecast is too high.  Without substantial additional accommodation, we will once again be underestimating the likely persistence of recent weak economic data. While we can do little to resolve problems in Europe or to address the fiscal cliff, it does not imply there is nothing monetary policy can do.  Mortgage rates have come down as a result of our actions and the flight to quality.  There are tentative signs that this is having an effect on the housing market, which, as several people have noted, is beginning to improve.  I am particularly heartened that we are seeing some regional variation in housing markets, with stronger markets, such as Boston, experiencing housing price appreciation.  Not only prices of single-family houses, but also condo prices are increasing in Boston, and, interestingly, many Realtors are reporting a surprising number of all-cash sales.  Given the improvement in sentiment, and the low interest rates for creditworthy borrowers, it is interesting that cash sales seem to be on the rise. With apartment rents rising in many markets, and real estate prices   July 31–improving in many markets, now would seem to be a good time to clearly generate a self-sustaining domestic housing recovery, by looking for ways to convince people that both the costs and availability of financing makes this a propitious time to buy.  Even if the cost and availability of credit is not the cause of the current slowdown, it can help prevent the slowdown from becoming more severe. I fear that monetary policy has been assuming we are the Roadrunner and that our momentum will carry us over any short-term chasms. In reality, we risk being more like Wylie Coyote as we once again realize that we have paused without solid ground beneath us.  The Roadrunner accelerates across the chasm; the coyote does not. It is time to mimic the Roadrunner.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing concern about the consensus forecast for economic growth and believes it is too high. They also disagree with the idea that monetary policy can prevent the current economic slowdown from becoming more severe.


Passage number 163.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  There’s been a lot of previous remarks that I feel compelled to respond to, but the first one is, of course, David Wilcox’s attack on dressage.  [Laughter] I will just say that if it was in my household, and the FOMC meeting was trying to complete against dressage, the FOMC meeting would lose big time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement by Mr. Kocherlakota is meant to be humorous and light-hearted, with no opposing perspectives or conflicting ideas.


Passage number 164.
 MR. WILCOX.  Precisely my fear.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. This is because the statement "precisely my fear" indicates agreement or alignment with the fear expressed previously.


Passage number 165.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m coming to appreciate the challenges of my place in the rotation in terms of being able to say anything blindingly novel about the outlook at this point in the discussion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. This is evident from the phrase "Thank you, Mr. Chairman" which indicates a polite expression rather than a confrontational one. Additionally, the mention of "challenges" suggests that the speaker is acknowledging the difficulties they face rather than expressing disagreement with anyone else.


Passage number 166.
 July 31–MR. POWELL.  Tell me about it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for information about something.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 167.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Mr. Chairman, I have one question—could you explain your use, earlier in your remarks, of the phrase “households are using debt to finance necessities.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Someone made that comment, I thought.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The passage indicates disagreement or contention as Mr. Plosser questions and seeks clarification on the phrase "households are using debt to finance necessities" used by the Chairman.


Passage number 168.
  July 31–MR. PLOSSER.  Given that consumption was down and savings were up, I was trying to square that phrase with the data showing that saving rates are rising. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Whoever made the comment can jump in if they want, but I take it to mean that some consumers, the ones who are more financially stressed, are doing that, not that it’s an average.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It presents an individual's observations and interpretation of data without any conflicting viewpoints or opposing statements.


Passage number 169.
  MR. BULLARD.  Mr. Chairman, modern monetary theory is based on sticky prices.  And I think one of the things that we’ve talked about around the table, maybe at cross-purposes, is that if a big shock hits the economy and prices are flexible, unemployment is going to go up July 31–and output is going to go down.  But because prices are sticky, you’re going to get a little bit different reaction on those variables than you would otherwise get, and according to the theories I know, it’s that gap that’s supposed to be the important one for monetary policy.  We don’t seem to want to do that.  I don’t understand why we don’t want to do that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do what.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement by Mr. Bullard expressing his understanding of modern monetary theory and questioning why certain actions are not being taken.


Passage number 170.
 MR. BULLARD. Look at that gap, analyze that gap, use modern macro theory to make our policy decisions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  What would we look at to make that decision.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply emphasizing the importance of analyzing a specific gap and using modern macro theory to inform policy decisions.


Passage number 171.
 MR. BULLARD.  It’s the gap between where you think the economy would be under flexible prices and where you think the economy is under sticky prices.  If there was no gap of that sort, according to the theories we like to cite, there would be no rationale for what we’re doing. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I’d welcome an analysis that tried to put that together. I think the historical evidence is that there’s a pretty smooth component in unemployment.  It does, obviously, vary over short periods, but in the medium term it tends to come back to a relatively smooth trend.  And it’s not clear what’s different in this case from those cases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is expressing his perspective and suggesting that an analysis be conducted to better understand the situation.


Passage number 172.
 MR. BULLARD.  I think we flip between sometimes using the arguments that come out of Woodford and his coauthors, which are based on what I’m talking about, and sometimes going to just straight empirical evidence that might be kind of distant from what that theory is talking about.  And that creates confusion around the table. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think it boils down to asking the question of whether, given that the recession started almost five years ago, there are identifiable reasons why mismatch or other such issues are persisting.  Again, my sense of the research that’s been done isJuly 31–that most of it—not all of it, but most of it—finds that that gap, or a reasonable approximation of that gap, is still pretty big. President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 173.
 MR. EVANS.  Could I just say that, as I listen to this discussion, I don’t think there’s a tremendous disagreement between the two of you on this.  Mr. Chairman, you cited Solow growth, where you had the opinion, which I agree with, that technology explanations for reductions in potential output are unlikely to be very large.  Labor issues could be a part of that.  But the construct that President Bullard is talking about in terms of output in the flexible-price economy is roughly going to be related to precisely those same issues when the economy is well functioning.  And then in the sticky price economy, there are going to be impediments to achieving that.  That’s what the gap is about.  Empirically, I agree with you that it seems to be very slow in adjusting.  The real question is, why is the slope of the Phillips curve as flat as it is. Or why is inflation determination in these models, or any economic analysis we look at, heavily dependent on intercept terms like inflation expectations.  Those are the kinds of puzzles that you’re talking about, which I think have challenged everybody’s explanations.  But I don’t really see a lot of disagreement between the two of your explanations.  All of those things are fundamental in our own DSGE analysis in the Chicago Fed model, and they’re explained in the context of that theory. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Did you have something, David, on this point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with both parties and stating that he does not see any significant disagreement between their explanations.


Passage number 174.
 MR. WILCOX.  Yes.  I just thought I’d offer that we inspect a variety of tools, both statistical and more theory based.  One of the pieces of evidence that we look to is evidence on shifts in the matching function, which is based on research by Andrew Figura and Regis Barnichon.  That shows an increase in the NAIRU of 1 percentage point or a little more. Another statistical framework that we use is a state-based model due to Charles Fleischman and   July 31–John Roberts, and that yields estimates that are broadly similar to what we have built into the staff forecast.  We do have, and carefully maintain and invest a lot of resources in, a DSGE model.  And so I thought, to be response, Michael Kiley could just say a word about what that DSGE model shows because it is based in the sort of optimizing framework that President Bullard is referring to and it’s among the stable of pieces of evidence that we look to. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Michael.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing information about different tools and models that are used to gather evidence.


Passage number 175.
 MR. KILEY.  We maintain a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with sticky prices and sticky wages and a number of financial frictions.  That model has a particular model of the labor market that does include unemployment, and so there is a natural rate of unemployment that corresponds to the flexible price natural rate.  When we look at that, it’s really quite smooth, consistent with other research like that of Galí, Smets, and Wouters, where it looks like the natural rate of unemployment is quite smooth, and you can attribute most of the fluctuations in the unemployment rate within a DSGE framework to fluctuations in “aggregate demand,” although within the DSGE framework, people don’t use that kind of language very often.  I would also note that in a framework like that, it’s exactly true that when there are only sticky prices and wages and not much dynamics and not too much capital, the social welfare function basically has in it the output gap that President Bullard described. In a more complicated world, though, other factors may be involved.  For example, our DSGE model takes into account the fact that there are different sectors of production, that the prices in different sectors might be different, that there might be different wages and different wage adjustment processes in those different sectors, and that there may be financial frictions. In all of those distortions, the world is just not the same as one in which welfare is maximized simply by closing the output gap.  For example, research at the Cleveland Fed shows that you want to take  July 31–into account impediments in the credit system—that those lower welfare and those enter the social welfare function.  So I do think that the analysis we have—and it’s only one model; other models would provide different answers—is perfectly consistent with the view that a modern macro model would have a reasonable unemployment gap in it.  And that theory is consistent with the view that, like you do around the table, you want to take into account many factors in thinking about how to achieve social welfare. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any other questions. [No response]  Okay.  Well, I guess that sets us up for the policy discussion, and I’ll turn it over to Bill English.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is a statement of the speaker's perspective and explanation of their model.


Passage number 176.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I have a question on alternative A.  We had some very good memos on market functioning, but I’d be curious to know your view of the effect of reversing the numbers between Treasuries and mortgages and to hear you quantify a little bit more what the market functioning argument would be, particularly if we’re successful in bringing rates down and presumably there’s more refinancing and other opportunities for dealing with the flow of mortgages.  Could you talk a little bit about how those numbers were chosen and, if we reversed the numbers, what you view the costs of that to be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and additional information on a certain topic.


Passage number 177.
  July 31–MR. ENGLISH.  I think the numbers were chosen to roughly match the total purchasable amounts that we found in the memo that showed the capacity for purchases, which showed that there was greater capacity on the Treasury side than on the MBS side. It seemed natural to have a purchase program that included a larger Treasury component than MBS component.  But I think if you were buying $1 trillion and wanted to shift that more in the direction of MBS, it would be feasible.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply explaining the rationale behind the choice of numbers for a purchase program.


Passage number 178.
 MR. POTTER.  The issue would just be the reinvestments as well.  At 45 plus 25 to 30, that’s getting—if you go to the Desk briefing from yesterday—quite high as a percentage of the gross issuance. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the reinvestments and the percentage of gross issuance.


Passage number 179.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  You might also want to alter this proportion over time.  The MBS flow might be pretty high at first as rates are pushed down, and then the MBS flow might be somewhat less later on.  So is it fair to say that the optimal division might not be fixed over time, that you might want to shift it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage is discussing the possibility of altering the proportion of MBS flow over time and suggests that the optimal division might not remain fixed. However, it does not present any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 180.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think that’s right.  The idea was that these are the numbers you would be starting with, but over time, as issues arose with regard to market functioning or there were changes in the flow of new MBS or whatever, there would be the opportunity to make those adjustments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 181.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Just to follow up, I like the idea of having a little more flexibility between mortgages and Treasuries.  If the constraint is the ultimate capacity—let’s say if you’re doing $1 trillion—would there be any reason not to start with more heavily weighting the mortgages at the outset and then, if there were issues that were cropping up, to reduce the amount of mortgages over time. Alternative A has fixed proportions over time, but would it be  July 31–beneficial to have a more flexible program that focuses more on mortgages at the outset and then, as problems crop up, if they do crop up, to alter that allocation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply discusses the idea of having more flexibility between mortgages and Treasuries in a program.


Passage number 182.
 MR. ENGLISH. Certainly that would be feasible. I think it’s up to the Committee, in some sense.  I know there are some on the Committee who have strong feelings about buying MBS versus buying Treasuries, but I don’t think there’s a technical reason to not do that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Instead, it describes a suggestion and the speaker's opinion about it.


Passage number 183.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think there’s an issue of what actually gives you the most bang for buck.  On the one hand, you could argue that buying Treasuries gives you a bigger bang for buck because of the longer-duration asset.  On the other hand, you could argue that agency MBS gives you more bang for buck because you’re working on two margins—not just the level of long-term rates, but also the spread between mortgages and Treasuries—and it’s more directly related to the housing market.  I think there are two separate issues here.  One, what’s the magnitude of bang for buck for Treasuries versus agency MBS.  And then, two, what are the capacity constraints, and how quickly do you run into the market functioning issues.  My personal opinion—I was going to save this until my comments later, but I think it’s probably germane to say it now—is that I would like the staff to do a little bit more work on these issues of what gives you the most bang for buck and what are the cost–benefit tradeoffs as you push further down in terms of the potential risks to market functioning.  I look at the alternative A numbers as a little bit of a placeholder until we do some additional work that will allow us to have a deeper discussion about what that split should be and how much flexibility there should be as it evolves over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any form of contention or disagreement. It presents different perspectives and acknowledges the need for further analysis and discussion, but there is no direct conflict between opposing views.


Passage number 184.
   MR. ENGLISH.  If I can add just one further complexity, it matters which Treasuries you’re buying as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. English is simply adding additional information or complexity to the discussion.


Passage number 185.
July 31–VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes, sure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 186.
 MR. ENGLISH.  This, I think, came up yesterday.  You can get potentially more bang for buck by buying longer Treasuries relative to buying more smoothly over the yield curve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating their opinion about potentially getting more value by buying longer Treasuries instead of buying more smoothly over the yield curve.


Passage number 187.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  But then you run into market functioning issues in those issues faster.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any form of contention or disagreement. It is stating a potential problem or challenge that can arise in market functioning.


Passage number 188.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response "Yes" simply acknowledges what the person named Mr. English has said.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 189.
 MR. FISHER.  May I follow up on that point.  I just wanted Simon to clarify because, if I recall correctly, when we went through your exhibit 19 yesterday, the Chairman asked for clarification of the numbers.  We would, at the end of this program, own 54 percent of the outstanding Treasuries between 3 and 30—is that correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The mention of the Chairman asking for clarification of the numbers suggests that there is some disagreement or confusion about the figures presented in exhibit 19.


Passage number 190.
 MR. POTTER.  That’s our estimate including the MEP.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker (Mr. Potter) is making a statement about their estimate, without any opposing views or conflicting opinions being presented.


Passage number 191.
 MR. FISHER.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  So that’s the MEP plus the two-year program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple statement of information without any conflicting viewpoints or opposing opinions.


Passage number 192.
 MR. POTTER.  Yes. That’s the way we did the calculation, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply agrees with the statement being made.


Passage number 193.
 MR. FISHER.  But to go to Bill’s point, between 6 and 30, would there be a higher concentration.  And what would that concentration be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is a question being asked and clarification being sought, but there is no apparent contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 194.
 MR. POTTER.  Do you have the numbers. MS. LOGAN.  For which program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Potter is asking a question and Ms. Logan is providing a simple response.


Passage number 195.
 MR. POTTER.  The 6 to 30. MS. LOGAN.  The 1 trillion or the 2.6.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Potter and Ms. Logan are simply stating different numbers without any contradicting statements.


Passage number 196.
 MR. FISHER.  For both. Let’s stick with the apples to apples, which is the two-year program first because that’s what I asked about.  I think we discussed this a little bit yesterday.July 31–MS. LOGAN.  I don’t have the distribution of the two-year program for 2.6 with us.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply clarifying the topic of discussion and mentioning that they had previously discussed it.


Passage number 197.
 MR. FISHER.  And for the program under alternative A for both.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of information by Mr. Fisher.


Passage number 198.
 MR. ENGLISH. Okay. Under alternative A, we stop the MEP and we buy $1 trillion, and with that assumption, we get to about 35 percent of Treasuries over 3 years and a little over 40 percent beyond 10 years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a scenario and the resulting percentages.


Passage number 199.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE. I think it is important to maintain some flexibility about how this is structured between Treasuries and MBS because the gross issuance number may actually fluctuate a bit. There are some indications right now that the originators are at capacity, and there have been announcements that would indicate that some of those originators are further reducing capacity. At the same time, FHFA announced yesterday that Freddie is going to move toward more HARP refinancing.  And then the third piece is, as the rates come down, you have some risk that the serial refinancers are the ones that are back using the available capacity, and these higher-rate HARP refinances get crowded out.  So I think it makes sense to really pay attention to gross issuance and maintain that flexibility and move slowly. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Governor Duke in which she shares her perspective on the importance of maintaining flexibility in the structure of Treasuries and Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) due to potential fluctuations in gross issuance numbers.


Passage number 200.
 MR. STEIN.  Yes, more on the same theme of being attentive to market spreads.  Obviously, we want to worry about capacity, but to me, a situation in which the Desk’s execution on an intraday basis is eroding would be much less troubling than, for example, one in which Treasuries seem to just detach from the rest of the curve.  We might have plenty of liquidity in the market, but if we fool with just pulling Treasuries and not getting much pass-through to spreads—this is essentially consistent with what President Rosengren was saying— July 31–we would want to start moving on the other spreads instead.  It’s a little harder to conceptualize and to measure, maybe, than the really narrow market functioning stuff, but I think it’s ultimately more important from a macro kind of perspective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing their perspective on market spreads and their concerns about the Desk's execution on an intraday basis and the detachment of Treasuries from the rest of the curve. There is no opposition or differing viewpoint presented.


Passage number 201.
 MR. POTTER.  That was Vice Chairman Dudley’s point as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not demonstrate contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Potter and Vice Chairman Dudley are in agreement on a particular point.


Passage number 202.
 MR. STEIN.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 203.
 MR. POWELL.  Further to what Vice Chairman Dudley was mentioning, I’d like to understand better how much of a bang for buck from buying MBS we think is in the housing market through lower rates and how much of it is just from removing duration, as though we were buying Treasuries. I don’t know if you have that now, but if not, then during the intermeeting period.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and seeking more information.


Passage number 204.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I don’t have specific numbers, but I think the point is that the housing market is now very small, and so the benefits from narrower spreads through mortgages to the housing sector are probably not that large relative to the broader effect of just pushing down longer-term rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents Mr. English's opinion regarding the housing market and the potential impact of narrower spreads on mortgages.


Passage number 205.
 MR. POWELL.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Of course, there are house price effects and other channels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 206.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions for Bill.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  I just want to make sure whether the outcomes for the alternative A LSAP that were shown on page 1 are 3, or are we looking at 3′.  And given that there is just one path here, are we to assume that there is no difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Governor Raskin is seeking clarification on the outcomes for the alternative A LSAP, specifically asking if they are 3 or 3'. This suggests that there may be differing understandings or interpretations of the information provided on page 1.


Passage number 207.
July 31–MR. ENGLISH. Because these were calculations done for the consensus forecast, they aren’t exactly alternative A, but basically a $1 trillion purchase program.  You could think of it as either 3′, just the stock version, or the flow version, but it happens that you bring it to a close in the fall of 2013 because the unemployment rate has fallen by, I think, about 0.4 percentage point by then, and you declare that to be enough of a move in the unemployment rate that it’s time to bring your purchases to a close. MS. RASKIN.  Okay.  I imagine that when we do our policy go-round, we will probably want to elaborate on differences between 3 and 3′. This suggests that there aren’t any, but I’m not sure analytically if that’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are discussing different versions or interpretations of a specific purchase program, but there is no disagreement between them in their statements.


Passage number 208.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I think the question is, when would you choose to end the flow of purchases under the flow version.  If the hurdle for bringing that program to a close is more substantial, so it would be in place for longer, then it would be a bigger purchase program and you’d get a bigger kick on the economy.  I think we didn’t know exactly what threshold you would want to apply, and so we tried to write down a $1 trillion purchase program as something that plausibly might be roughly in line with paragraph 3.  The other thing to keep in mind is, beyond what the purchases are expected to be at the outset, there is the thought that the flow version may provide greater reassurance that the Committee is going to keep buying until something good happens. If there’s a negative shock, then the amount of purchases could be increased in a flexible way in order to potentially provide greater confidence effects, aside from the amount of purchases that people anticipate. MS. RASKIN.  Right, but we don’t see that confidence reflected here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both speakers are discussing the potential effects and considerations of a purchase program, but they are not contradicting each other or expressing opposing views.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 209.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Absolutely—quite right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard, question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage as indicated by the speaker's response "Absolutely—quite right" which implies a contradiction or opposition to President Bullard's statement that likely preceded this response.


Passage number 210.
  July 31–MR. BULLARD.  Yes.  On page 1 of the handout, I guess there could be confidence bands around the unemployment rate and PCE inflation.  How confident can I be that these are statistically different, these two lines.  That’s one question; I have another question, but go ahead.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is simply expressing a question and seeking clarification or information.


Passage number 211.
 MR. ENGLISH.  On the confidence bands, we know the confidence bands around these things are very large.  This is our best estimate.  We haven’t calculated correct confidence bands given the nature of the exercise. But presumably these are not big effects relative to the uncertainty around our estimates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that the confidence bands are large and expresses the understanding that the estimated effects are not significant compared to the uncertainty surrounding the estimates.


Passage number 212.
  MR. BULLARD.  Could I map some of the confidence bands that are around, say, the consensus forecast exercise. Could I put those on this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. MR. BULLARD is requesting permission to add confidence bands to a forecast exercise.


Passage number 213.
 MR. ENGLISH.  I don’t think so because those are, in some sense, unconditional confidence bands.  Those confidence bands would be relative to all sorts of shocks that could play out over the next few years.  This is saying, this is, in effect, the outcome, given a particular way that the economy plays out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply explains the meaning and implications of the conditional confidence bands without any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 214.
 MR. BULLARD. Okay. So we’re not putting them on the picture, but we think that they’re pretty wide.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Bullard is simply stating that they are not including something in the picture but acknowledging that they believe it to be wide.


Passage number 215.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  If you apply this methodology not to the two individual paths but to the difference and ask the question whether there was a positive effect, the methodology would guarantee that it would be a very small confidence band because the same shock hitting with or without the policy would give you exactly the same differential.  It would be independent of the shock.  I’m not saying that’s truth. I’m just saying that that’s what the model would give you if you did this methodology in terms of the difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is explaining a hypothetical scenario and discussing the methodology used, but there is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 216.
July 31–MR. BULLARD.  I have one more question.  On the unemployment path, one of the things I mentioned yesterday is that because of long-run neutrality there should be payback periods so that unemployment is temporarily lower, but then later it must be temporarily higher—these often don’t show up in this picture.  It does seem as though it is going to show up here starting at about 2020.  Is that a fair way to think about this—that, yes, you can temporarily lower unemployment, but you can’t permanently lower the path of unemployment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and seeking clarification on the concept of unemployment path and its temporary and permanent effects.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 217.
 MR. WILCOX.  I don’t think that is correct, because the unemployment rate throughout the adjustment period is above the NAIRU, and so if we were driving unemployment materially below the NAIRU, it would have to come back up ultimately to the NAIRU.  But are you suggesting that there would be some sort of a stock of payback.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Wilcox, disagrees with a statement made by someone else. He argues that if unemployment was driven below the NAIRU, it would eventually have to come back up. He questions whether there would be a "stock of payback" for this decrease in unemployment.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 218.
 MR. BULLARD.  This looks like a permanent effect on unemployment.  Is that what we’re seeing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Bullard, suggests that the observed phenomenon may have a permanent effect on unemployment, but the passage does not provide any agreement or evidence to support or counter this claim.


Passage number 219.
 MR. WILCOX.  No, I don’t think so.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Wilcox simply states his opinion without any disagreement from others.


Passage number 220.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  The simulations go out through 2075 [laughter], but we’re not showing you those.  They’re all converging.  The unemployment rate is converging to 5½ percent just a few years after 2020, and inflation is going to 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting information about simulations and stating that they show a convergence in the unemployment rate and inflation.


Passage number 221.
 MR. WILCOX.  And there’s no permanent effect. It’s 5½ percent either way.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It simply states a fact about the percentage, without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting information.


Passage number 222.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Yes. The policies in both cases are designed to cause the economy to settle down at the assumed equilibrium, which is an unemployment rate of 5½ percent and inflation at 2 percent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker states that both policies aim to achieve a specific goal: an unemployment rate of 5½ percent and inflation at 2 percent.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 223.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  So you’re saying there’s monotonic convergence. Is that what you’re saying. It’s all monotonic convergence.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that there is contention or disagreement. The use of the phrase "Is that what you're saying" implies that Mr. Bullard is unsure or skeptical about the claim of monotonic convergence.


Passage number 224.
July 31–MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Is there any wobble.  The wobbles, I think, are what you’re talking about.  There are wobbles past 2020.  They are very tiny; they’re irrelevant.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges the presence of wobbles and agrees that they are very tiny and irrelevant.


Passage number 225.
 MR. BULLARD.  Okay.  The model is built to not change the natural rate of unemployment so that there’s no permanent tradeoff.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not mention any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement about the model being built in a certain way.


Passage number 226.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Sure—yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees or affirms what is being said by saying "Sure—yes."


Passage number 227.
 MR. BULLARD.  So this means that if you provide a more aggressive policy in some phases of the business cycle, you can have higher unemployment in other phases of the business cycle than what you would otherwise have if you did not provide that.  The business cycle would go like this, the unemployment rate would go like this, and then you would attenuate that cycle, and that’s how you get the same average over a long time. So we must be attenuating the cycle.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a perspective or explanation of how the business cycle and unemployment rate are related.


Passage number 228.
 MR. WILCOX.  No.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The statement "MR. WILCOX. No" does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It appears to be a simple response or answer without any conflicting opinions or disagreement present.


Passage number 229.
 MR. BULLARD.  If you’re not, then you have a permanent tradeoff. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No.  You’re filling in the gap.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It seems to be a statement or explanation without any opposing views presented.


Passage number 230.
 MR. WILCOX.  You’re simply filling in a gap along the adjustment trajectory.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply states a fact without any conflicting perspectives or opposing opinions.


Passage number 231.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Yes, I think it really is just faster convergence back to potential.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It simply states the opinion of Mr. English that there is faster convergence back to potential.


Passage number 232.
 MR. BULLARD. I’d like to see longer-term simulations of the model, and you show me how the economy would behave, say, under poor policy or something and then under a better policy, and show me the unemployment dynamics over a very long period of time where the average doesn’t change but the business cycle is attenuated through our policy.  That’s what I’d prefer to see.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is a statement expressing Mr. Bullard's preference for seeing longer-term simulations of the model and observing the effects of different policies on the economy over time.


Passage number 233.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. I can send those to you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that Mr. Reifschneider can send something to someone.


Passage number 234.
 MR. BULLARD.  That would be good. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. President Lacker, you had a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 235.
   July 31–MR. LACKER. It was just a comment on the exchange you had with President Bullard.  I think you were right to point out that the relevant confidence band isn’t around any one of these two forecasts, but it’s around the marginal effect.  Now, I would just point out that the intermediate steps in constructing that would involve crucially this estimate of the effect of an LSAP on longer-term yields. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.  There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing support for a point made by President Bullard.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 236.
 MR. LACKER. It wasn’t my impression that those were estimated terribly precisely, and so I’m not sure why we’d suspect that the error bands would be very tight around these differential effects. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I was just making a narrow comment.  You don’t take into account coefficient uncertainty, right. So in the methodology used here, given the coefficients, you are just hitting the equations with shocks.  Then that uncertainty you are referring to, which is real, would not be captured in that exercise—that’s all I’m saying.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. Mr. Lacker disagrees with the methodology used and suggests that the uncertainty in coefficients is not taken into account, which could affect the accuracy of the results.


Passage number 237.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  Well, the coefficient uncertainty in the model is yet another source of uncertainty. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Of course.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not involve any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a fact about the uncertainty in a model.


Passage number 238.
 MR. LACKER. This key delta—how many basis points an LSAP gives you—is imprecisely measured as well, and that’s the linchpin to these effects.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not present any disagreement or contention. It is a statement made by Mr. Lacker regarding the imprecise measurement of a key delta in LSAP and its importance in determining certain effects.


Passage number 239.
 MR. WILCOX. I think there’s more agreement here than meets the eye. The relevant confidence intervals are around the policy multipliers, not around these particular trajectories. And I think that’s the point that we’re all struggling to articulate.  July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Not seeing other questions—have we finished the policy go-round yet.  [Laughter]  Why don’t we start with our policy go-round, and I’ll call on President Lockhart to begin.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 240.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B at this meeting. On the question of the extension of the funds rate forward guidance, I accept that there is a valid rationale.  Most here have downgraded their outlooks, and a move to mid-2015 could be justified based on the revised outlook or perhaps on consistency with the logic of the January move.  That said, I prefer holding off on changing the guidance until the September meeting. I see benefit in making any change in the forward guidance bundled with other policy actions if it turns out that that’s the Committee’s decision in September. I agree with the staff assessment that such a change in isolation might actually undermine public confidence in the outlook.  I’m prepared to support the change in language from the June statement in paragraph 4, the language that notches up the policy bias, and I’ll add a comment in support of that in a moment. I feel strongly that this is not the meeting to take the step of adopting one of the LSAP options outlined in alternative A.  I much prefer full discussion at this meeting and consideration of that option at the September meeting.  Apart from the benefit of full discussion and the usefulness, in my view, of accumulating more evidence of the economy’s path, I think a move of this magnitude needs to be complemented with the use of the arsenal of communications tools, including the Chairman’s press conference. In my thinking, there are a number of reasons to discuss now and act then if deemed appropriate by the Committee.  As of this meeting, my policy position is captured well by some of the points in the case for alternative B in the Tealbook.  Despite the weak incoming data, my outlook has not worsened materially since the last meeting. I continue to expect some strengthening in economic growth over coming quarters.   July 31–I expect a gradual reduction in the rate of unemployment and little inflationary pressure. There is certainly a risk, and maybe a material probability, that the conditions we’ve seen recently might not improve or could become more pronounced.  So I’m comfortable with the forward lean signaled in the alternative B language. Because the change to paragraph 4 will increase the expectation of policy action at the next meeting, I think the policy options in alternative A should be the focus of discussion in this round.  Obviously, either of the two options of LSAP, or QE3, is a significant action. In my view, the decision to undertake another LSAP is a momentous one and requires a careful weighing of benefits versus costs.  On consideration, I would expect the ultimate tradeoff between benefits and costs to boil down to one of limited benefits opposite uncertain costs, but in most respects, manageable risks. I currently prefer the open-ended option because I think the commitment to keep applying accommodation until satisfactory conditions have been achieved is the stronger and more flexible of the two approaches. I think it has the better chance of producing meaningful results.  I also think it’s possible that it will involve expending fewer resources.  That said, we should have restrained expectations for another LSAP round.  Lower interest rates and more liquidity are unlikely to move the needle much.  A boost to risky asset prices would likely be mood enhancing for some period but won’t alter fundamentals, in my view.  Outcomes such as lower rates and higher risky asset prices will probably help and will probably produce improvement of economic conditions over what would have transpired in the absence of further stimulus.  As of this time, I’m not projecting inflation so measurably below our target as to view a new LSAP as similar in purpose to LSAP 2.  At the same time, I see the costs as mostly contingencies in the form of longer-term risks. If the risks were to materialize as actual costs, they are unlikely to be apparent in the near term.  If the Committee decides to  July 31–implement a new LSAP program, I see value in communicating clearly that the program would be ended early if the effects are judged to be smaller than expected or if the associated costs look to be more substantial than originally thought. Regarding the option to cut IOER, I also think there are reasons to be cautious at this meeting and hold off.  I’d like to have more confidence that the move will not disrupt the functioning of money markets with spillover into the economy.  I doubt that reduction to 15 basis points—or to zero, for that matter—will encourage more lending.  I think there is a chance that banks would move to replace lost income by raising charges to customers, and I’d like to have some time to watch the European experience, even if just for a few weeks. Overall, I don’t see this as a powerful tool in and of itself.  With more certainty on some of these concerns, I could see including an IOER move in a bundle of stronger actions. Finally, even though the circumstances calling for additional policy actions seem to be becoming more evident, I expect that the outlook will be murky at the next meeting; we will still be guessing.  Another LSAP is a big decision.  I’m not yet fully convinced it will be the right decision to pull the trigger in September, but my mind is not closed on the matter, and I hope the Committee will use this meeting for full discussion and take up the question of action in September. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their own views and preferences, but there is no indication of disagreement with others.


Passage number 241.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I strongly favor alternative A, and, like President Lockhart, I am going to use my time to talk about alternative A, because I do think that getting the wording right is important.  At our last meeting, the situation called for action, and we took a step in that direction.  The news since then confirms that progress toward our policy goals will likely remain stalled unless we take further, more-significant action. In the Tealbook, theJuly 31–unemployment gap remains sizable and does not close for the next two years.  And all the while, inflation remains below our 2 percent target.  Simply put, such an outcome is inconsistent with appropriate monetary policy.  We need to be on a path that brings us measurably closer to our goals over the forecast horizon.  To accomplish that, we should take the strong actions described in alternative A, including further asset purchases and extending the forward guidance to mid-2015; I also favor lowering the interest rate on reserves to 15 basis points. In reaching this conclusion, I weighed two counterarguments.  One is that we should wait for conclusive confirmation that the economy has lost momentum, and the second is that we should keep our powder dry, saving it in case we go over the fiscal cliff or Europe implodes.  But I find neither argument for inaction compelling.  As I mentioned in our discussion of policy rules, the key lesson from research is the need to act quickly and aggressively in situations where we have limited firepower remaining.  Delay is costly because the opportunity to add stimulus may be lost.  The same logic equally applies to the use of asset purchases. Furthermore, the memo on capacity constraints indicated that if another big negative shock hits, we still have room to do quite a bit more.  Even if we act today, we will still have plenty of powder left in reserve. Turning to the specifics, I, too, support the open-ended option in paragraph 3.  This approach has a number of advantages.  Given all of the uncertainties we face, we cannot be sure of how long we’ll need to keep buying assets until they get the economy on track.  Therefore, pre-announcing the total purchase amount could be counterproductive.  In addition, the open-ended approach allows us to apply a more rule-like structure around the asset purchases, as President Bullard has argued.  On a small detail, I prefer the final sentence in 3′ to the final sentence of 3.  Everyone knows that there are potential costs to LSAPs and their effects are July 31–uncertain.  That’s why we move cautiously.  But publicly fretting about that in the statement diverts attention from our main message, which is that we will do whatever it takes to make measurable progress on our goals. In sum, I’m convinced that further action is needed at this time.  I can go along with pushing this off until the next meeting, but I worry that our delay is only making matters worse. In terms of alternative B, I prefer keeping the “late 2014” language for now, if we’re going to go with alternative B. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Williams, strongly favors alternative A and is discussing why he believes it is important to take further action. He weighs counterarguments but finds neither compelling. He also supports the open-ended option and discusses the advantages it has. Overall, he believes further action is needed and expresses concern over delaying it.


Passage number 242.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. Just a quick comment on the pricing issue for inflation.  I agree that marginal utilities have to be taken into account.  I was trying to do that by thinking about the comparison of relative prices with the slope of the objective function, but you could do it the way you were doing them in terms of just weighting things by marginal utilities. I think it is not as obvious what a balanced approach would imply for marginal utilities when the unemployment rate is as high as 8.2 percent, but I think this is exactly the kind of conversation we need to have. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a comment expressing agreement and appreciation for a previous statement.


Passage number 243.
 MR. FISHER.  I think that is certainly good, clear, and understandable logic for those who have access to stocks and mutual funds, which is about 50 percent of the households.  These people are much more sophisticated than we give them credit for, Mr. Chairman, but you and other Governors have reminded me on various occasions that we can’t place too much stock in anecdotal evidence. Having said that, I’ve always referred to these as pixels that are part of a broader picture, and I offer them only because I think they’re important to take into consideration.  Second, I think we have to be very careful.  Whether they’re little or large,July 31–whether they’re public or private, these are the people who are on the battlefield creating jobs. What I am asking them is what their plans are in terms of budgeting, and I am relaying it to the Committee.  Obviously, this is anecdotal, and I always preface my comments by saying, “For what it’s worth.”  So let me conclude my comments by saying that for what it’s worth, that’s my opinion.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Their plans are quite interesting. It’s just the analytical part that I’m questioning.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing his opinion and acknowledging the potential limitations of anecdotal evidence.


Passage number 244.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I’d just reinforce the point that I think the channel of the cost of capital affecting business fixed investment is actually probably one of the weaker channels, as opposed to one of the more powerful channels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not express any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating the author's opinion on the strength of the channel of the cost of capital affecting business fixed investment.


Passage number 245.
 MR. FISHER.  So what are we doing, Bill. We’re lowering the cost of capital, correct. We’re providing plentiful capital.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of agreement where the speaker is confirming the action being taken (lowering the cost of capital) and the purpose (providing plentiful capital).


Passage number 246.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That works through many different channels. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Many, many different channels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The repetition of "many" emphasizes the multitude of channels through which something works but does not imply disagreement or contention.


Passage number 247.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And the cost-of-capital channel is probably one of the weaker ones.  That’s all I’d say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a statement that suggests the cost-of-capital channel is not as strong as other channels. There is no contention or disagreement present.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 248.
 July 31–MR. TARULLO.  Okay. If it’s up to me, then I’m done. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As the economic data have, for the most part, continuously weakened over the course of the year, we publicly have sent the signal that we’re waiting for some clarity about whether there really is slowing under way. Now that we have revised Q1 GDP data and a look at Q2, as well as six months of employment data, it seems clear that the economy has indeed slowed appreciably since the second half of 2011.  With that additional clarity, it seems to me that it isn’t the data that is the rationale for not doing more to ensure that we’re making progress toward achieving either leg of our dual mandate.  The data are probably as clear as they will ever be.  What is unclear to the public is the efficacy and calibration of our tools and how we intend to use them.  And so I think the public might benefit from a shift in the conversation. Indeed, the economy might benefit from a shift in the conversation away from the prospects of poor prognosis and toward an explanation of what particular actions are intended to do. This is no small task.  Obviously, central banks react to economic conditions.  They have extraordinary capacity to do this in an apolitical way if they’re structured with both independence and accountability.  But in the realm of the unconventional, the zero lower bound, and constrained policymaking, the effectiveness of our actions also depends on fuller explanations of our tools.  Without such full explanations, the public and markets are confused and act in ways that counter the rationale for the policy tools.  This may not be a weakness in the tools, but a weakness in our communication to the public of what these policy tools are intended to do.  To me, the case for forceful and effective action is clear, but the necessary discussion is how to maximize the power of our communications before taking new action.  There may not be July 31–much to be gained from waiting, in terms of improving our insights into how the economy is evolving.  We’re always uncertain about the state of the economy, and I think it’s as clear as it can ever really be that the labor market isn’t improving on its own anytime soon.  I also don’t see January 2013 as some magical island from where the view is better and uncertainty has dissipated.  Moreover, I’m convinced by the work of the staff in their memos that we have plenty of capacity in the markets to take more action without impairing market functioning.  I don’t think that market functioning is a reason to hesitate, but of course, I look forward to further work in this area.  On the contrary, I think communication of these findings could set the stage for more forceful and effective action. I think the case for waiting can be made if it can improve our communications about new policy actions to economic participants.  In other words, can we make good use of the intermeeting period to introduce new or newly packaged monetary policy tools. Here, I’m reminded of my previous attempts at rolling out new dinner items to the family. I can throw together what is in the back of the refrigerator—the leftover chicken, salad, and potatoes—or I can attempt the never-before-tried seafood bouillabaisse à la Provençal.  But whichever route I go, let there be no doubt that an a priori explanation will be demanded.  Similarly, there’s a risk that announcing a new, bold policy tool or a package of less aggressive policy options without describing the thinking behind them may be interpreted by markets as a sign that we think the likelihood of an even worse economic outcome has significantly increased.  And without speeches from the Chairman and others to explain how such a new tool or package of old tools would be effective, we could confuse the public and get less of a positive effect than we otherwise could.July 31–In my view, an important part of the communication should be to make it clear that we’re not taking this bold move because we think that the economy has significantly weakened.  On the contrary, we should indicate that this is the right policy to take because we are doing what it takes to get where we want to be and to get there sooner than we would otherwise.  This would be a different content to communication than what has been usual here, and for me, if done correctly, justifies the lag in acting more quickly and decisively.  Therefore, if it’s the decision of the members of this Committee that we should go with alternative B at this time, that’s a decision I can support.  My support wouldn’t be without reservations, because I think the signal that we may be sending to the public now will be that we’re not concerned about meeting our mandate or that we think we don’t have the ability to do so.  Neither of those are messages that I want to send.  If we go with alternative B, I hope that members of this Committee will begin to clearly talk publicly about the possibility of and rationale for the type of action in alternative A so that we have laid the groundwork for enacting that policy the next time we meet. More important, I hope the policy action is characterized to the public as one that will be forceful and effective. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. Governor Raskin expresses her belief that the economy has indeed slowed and that more action should be taken to achieve the dual mandate. She suggests that the communication of the Federal Reserve's policy tools needs to be clearer to avoid confusion in the public and markets. On the other hand, Governor Stein expresses reservations about taking bold action and suggests that a different approach to communication may be necessary.


Passage number 249.
   July 31–MR. TARULLO.  I hadn’t thought about it, Mr. Chairman, but I found Bill’s arguments persuasive.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker mentions that they found someone's arguments persuasive, indicating agreement.


Passage number 250.
 MR. BULLARD. I agree with Vice Chairman Dudley and Governor Tarullo on this question. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker states that they agree with Vice Chairman Dudley and Governor Tarullo on a certain question.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 251.
 MR. FISHER.  Obviously, I disagree.  We all talk about the fiscal cliff and the uncertainties that derive from it.  It’s a reality, and you made the message yourself, Mr. Chairman, as you said.  I would include it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any others.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher explicitly states that he disagrees with something, although it is not specified what specifically he disagrees with. However, his mention of the fiscal cliff and uncertainties implies that there is contention regarding this issue.


Passage number 252.
 MR. FISHER.  By the way, it may be in there for the next 20 years. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  All right.  Well, I think a number of voters here expressed concerns, and so I think we’ll take that out and keep the language there—“Furthermore, strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks”— exactly identical to last time.  Then there were two comments about the “closely monitor” sentence.  President Kocherlakota suggested removing the words “and financial.” I think what we had in mind there was European developments, et cetera.  Are there others who have views on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents the remarks and suggestions made by individuals regarding certain language in a document.


Passage number 253.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think it should stay in just for that reason.  I think people will construe that as a European reference. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 254.
 MR. LACKER.  Are they not economic developments. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, yes—personally, I don’t feel super strongly about this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement presented in this passage. Mr. Lacker acknowledges the economic developments but expresses his personal indifference towards them.


Passage number 255.
 MR. LACKER.  I agree with President Kocherlakota.  I’d take it out. July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Both Mr. Lacker and President Kocherlakota agree on removing something, and President Lockhart's statement is not included in the passage.


Passage number 256.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I favor keeping the “financial developments.” I think they’re very material at this time.  Financial disruptions of any kind are things we should be worried about and we’ll monitor. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. This was exactly the same language we used a couple of years ago when we had a similar type of description.  Is that okay.  Would you like to take a straw vote.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is simply a statement of opinion and a request for consensus.


Passage number 257.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  It’s certainly up to the voters to decide on this. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. I’ll ask participants.  How many would like to keep the “financial” language.  One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.  Okay.  We have a majority of participants, and we’ll keep the language as it is.  The other suggestion was to change “as” to “if.”  I’m a little concerned about dialing back.  I think there were enough people around the table who were forward leaning and thought, in fact, that we should even consider moving today that I’d like to keep the forward-leaning aspect, if that’s okay.  All right; I think that covers everything.  The changes we’ve made are, first, to get rid of the red “issues relating to U.S. fiscal policy,” and, second, to get rid of “mid-2015”; otherwise, alternative B would be as written. MS. DANKER.  Okay.  This vote is on alternative B as the Chairman described and on the associated directive. Chairman Bernanke Yes Vice Chairman Dudley Yes Governor Duke Yes President Lacker No President Lockhart Yes President Pianalto Yes Governor Powell Yes Governor Raskin Yes Governor Stein Yes Governor Tarullo Yes July 31–President Williams Yes Governor Yellen Yes CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  We went entirely through the coffee break.  Let me propose the following.  Why don’t we take a half-hour break. During that time, there’s coffee; lunch is also available.  So please gather some lunch, and at 12:45 we will recommence.  You can even have your lunch then, and then we’ll do the last item, which is about the consensus forecast.  Okay.  12:45. Thank you. [Lunch break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.7  Okay.  Why don’t we recommence.  We have one last item on the agenda, item 5, which is a discussion of the experimental consensus forecast.  What we’d like to do is have two go-rounds.  The first one, which I hope will be very quick, is the following.  If this were live and I had a press conference in half an hour, I would be showing the baseline consensus forecast, the one that has no policy change, and saying that this forecast is the basis of the policy decision we made today.  Then I would say that a majority of the Committee supports this forecast—or says that their own views can be described in this forecast—and that several people disagreed with the forecast on the following grounds.  Or a similar type of statement might be in the minutes.  So what we’d like to do in the first go-round—again, I think it should be very quick—is just ask people, “If this were a live exercise, would you accept the proposition that your views can be, broadly speaking, described by the consensus forecast. If not, please say a few words about why not.” In the second go-round, which is more substantive, I’ll let Governor Yellen, who’s the head of the communications subcommittee, start it off, and then we’d like to get your views and your input on this whole process—if you’d like to continue this experiment, what changes you would like to make, et cetera.  Let me begin with the first go-7 See note 4. July 31–round.  I think I’ll just go around the table, if that’s okay, and ask people their views.  First go-round:  Would your views be describable by the baseline consensus forecast.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The participants are simply discussing and making decisions about the language and changes to a document.


Passage number 258.
 MR. LACKER.  The answer is, pretty much.  My forecast, as I said yesterday, for inflation is closer to 2 percent, and for liftoff I’d write down something more like end of 2013 or maybe early 2014.  Now, you’re asking about the forecast qua numbers, as opposed to a write-up or any descriptive prose in the forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I’m talking about the numbers in table 1 that I’d be showing—excluding the Tealbook, obviously.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply stating their own forecast and clarifying what they are referring to in the forecast. There is no indication of disagreement or conflicting views.


Passage number 259.
 MR. LACKER. So we’re not talking about the broader context—what we’re thinking about a monetary policy report or language about why things happen. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.  We haven’t gotten to that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply provides a statement and response relating to a specific topic of conversation.


Passage number 260.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  All right.  Then I’ll save my comments about prose for later. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Right now, we’re just talking about the numbers in table 1—excluding the Tealbook numbers, of course.  And we also have exhibit 1, which shows the fan charts.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 261.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay.  That’s my answer.  I’m sticking to it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It consists of one person giving a statement and another person thanking them.


Passage number 262.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I don’t know if I’ll be able to obey your admonition to be brief. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. While the speaker mentions not knowing if they will be able to be brief, there is no contention or disagreement evident in this passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 263.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. Actually, I have three differences with the forecast, but they’re qualitatively quite different in importance. The first two differences are due to a different   July 31–assessment of the current state of the economy.  I think there’s less slack than most of you do, and that leads me to favor less accommodation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In the passage, Mr. Kocherlakota expresses disagreement with others about the current state of the economy and the level of accommodation needed. He believes there is less slack in the economy and therefore favors less accommodation.


Passage number 264.
 MR. LACKER.  Is slack on the table here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is a direct question asking if "slack" is being considered or discussed.


Passage number 265.
 MR. EVANS.  It wasn’t in the table.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement is a straightforward statement of fact and does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 266.
 MR. LACKER. I thought we were talking about table 1.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no clear indication of contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement from Mr. Lacker is more of a clarification or redirection of the conversation.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 267.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  President Lacker, I believe the table has in it a forecast for the federal funds rate. I’m trying to explain why my forecast of the federal funds rate would differ from that in this table.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Kocherlakota, is explaining that his forecast for the federal funds rate is different from the forecast stated in the table. This indicates a disagreement between Mr. Kocherlakota and the forecast in the table.


Passage number 268.
 MR. LACKER.  Oh, okay.  All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lacker is simply agreeing and trying to understand what is being said.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 269.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. I don’t view these differences in terms of policy as being that critical.  At any given point in time, we’re going to have heterogeneous views of the size of the gap.  The point of a consensus forecast is to aggregate as best as possible our heterogeneous views.  And I think the current consensus forecast does that in a fair and reasonable way. But my last concern of the three is that the consensus forecast appears to imply that the Committee’s objective function over inflation and unemployment is inconsistent with the Committee’s January statement of principles, and this is a much more significant issue for me. Basically, my point is that the consensus forecast is much more important than what the Committee thinks is going to happen; it’s a way for communicating what the Committee is trying to make happen. And I think this forecast, as written, is not consistent with our longer-term strategies. In terms of my own forecast, as I’ve said before, I think the output gap is less negative than is implied by this. Essentially, I look at measures of utilization—at capacity utilization, average weekly hours, the box on labor shortages on pages 10 to 11 of the Tealbook A—and I would say everything, though, indicates that slack is roughly equivalent to early 2004.  Here, IJuly 31–guess I disagree slightly with Governor Powell that it matters whether the output gap is minus 4 percent or minus 2 percent.  And if you go back to late 2004, the FOMC estimated the output gap to be minus 1.4 percent, inflation was actually running lower than it is right now, and the FOMC was raising rates.  And they certainly had less accommodation in place.  So my view is that I expect inflation to be rising more rapidly than is in this consensus forecast.  I think it’ll be rising to over 2½ percent by mid-decade, and I favor less accommodative policy than is described in table 1 as a result.  But the name of this forecast is “consensus,” not “unanimous.” If these were the only differences, I would be comfortable with table 1 being used as a description of the consensus forecast of the Committee in a press conference, Mr. Chairman. However, I see my final difference as being considerably more material.  I think that most of us would agree that by changing the proposed path of monetary policy, we can affect the inflation rate and unemployment rate in 2014.  So the forecasts for 2014 inflation and 2014 unemployment are actually saying something about what we’re trying to achieve for those variables in 2014.  And by doing that, it’s signaling how we’re applying policy to trade off unemployment versus inflation in response to future shocks.  The Committee voted in January to follow a balanced approach to the dual mandate.  The consensus forecast in table 1 seems inconsistent with a balanced approach.  As I highlighted earlier, the consensus forecast says that inflation will be 1.8 percent in 2014 and unemployment will be 7.6 percent.  A balanced approach would indicate, I believe, that the Committee should be providing more accommodation in order to generate inflation above 2 percent.  And this matters because, Mr. Chairman, as I said, I think the benefit of a consensus forecast is that it tells people what we’re trying to achieve, and that, I think, feeds into Governor Raskin’s perspective that it’s importantJuly 31–for people to know what we’re trying to achieve with our policy in order for the policy to have as much effectiveness as possible.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker disagrees with the consensus forecast and argues that it is not consistent with the Committee's longer-term strategies and balanced approach to the dual mandate.


Passage number 270.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I have a question.  Are we supposed to write down what we think is the consensus forecast or what we want to happen.  This is the consensus forecast of what we think is going to happen, not what we want to happen.  And you can’t pull your punches and write down a different forecast that you don’t think is going to happen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of someone seeking clarification and providing a clear statement about the expectation of writing down the consensus forecast.


Passage number 271.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Vice Chairman, I was under the impression that this is conditional on appropriate monetary policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their understanding that something is conditional on appropriate monetary policy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 272.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Yes, it is. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota is saying that he disagrees with the forecast on the grounds that the monetary policy underlying it is not one he agrees with it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. President Kocherlakota is disagreeing with the forecast and the monetary policy underlying it.


Passage number 273.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. So you want a more stimulative monetary policy to generate a higher inflation outcome.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement suggests a desire for a specific monetary policy to achieve a desired outcome, without any indication of opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 274.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  The consensus forecast should be consistent with the longer-term strategy principles laid out in January.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage is stating that the consensus forecast should align with the longer-term strategy principles, which implies agreement on the approach. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 275.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I’m okay with that. I just thought you were saying that we write down what we wanted to achieve, as opposed to what we thought we might achieve.  There may be times when there’s a conflict between what we want to achieve and what we think we can achieve.  This might be one of those times because the efficacy of some of the tools isn’t as great as we would like them to be.  I guess I have a question on this consensus forecast.  Could people accept this forecast as representing the consensus, even if they didn’t agree with it.July 31–My answer to that would be yes.  In other words, you could disagree with the forecast yourself, but you could agree that this represents the consensus.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is discussing the possibility of a conflict between what someone wants to achieve and what they think they can achieve, but there is no argument or opposing viewpoints presented.


Passage number 276.
 MR. LOCKHART.  That’s not the question being asked. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The question being asked is, does it represent your view.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Mr. Lockhart is simply stating that the question being asked does not pertain to the view being discussed.


Passage number 277.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Okay. Fair enough. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And that’s the way we’re going to figure out if it’s a consensus.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It seems to express a willingness to find a consensus.


Passage number 278.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I agree with this.  This is close enough for government work. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
There is no disagreement or contention in this passage. The statement "I agree with this" indicates agreement, and the phrase "close enough for government work" suggests that something is satisfactory or acceptable. The mention of President Lockhart does not introduce any disagreement or contention either.


Passage number 279.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Yes.  This forecast lines up very closely with the forecast I had coming into the meeting, and so if it were a real situation, I would endorse it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lockhart is agreeing with and endorsing the forecast, expressing that it aligns closely with his own forecast. President Evans acknowledges this and thanks him.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 280.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you.  I think my answer is yes, but let me be careful.  The iterative process was, submit a forecast, and I’m on my own, so I put in appropriate monetary policy.  I also took the cues that President Kocherlakota mentioned last time, and I put in quite a lot of accommodation.  So I got a forecast.  Then the first iteration came back, and it’s got a funds rate path that has less accommodation.  If that’s fixed, if my forecast is conditional on that, I’m in the consensus and I am fine with that.  But if we start opening it up to everybody’s appropriate policies— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, I think you could dissent on the action, for example, because you thought that this wasn’t accommodative enough, and then you could say, “Well,   July 31–conditional on what the Committee has decided to do, I think this is an appropriate forecast.” Does that sound right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses potential disagreement with opening up the forecast to everyone's appropriate policies and suggests that someone could dissent on the action if they felt it was not accommodative enough.


Passage number 281.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. This is the outcome you’ll get if the Committee does what the Committee planned to do. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states a cause and effect relationship without any indication of contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 282.
  This is what will happen if the Committee does— MR. EVANS.  I’m sorry.  Could you just go through that one more time.  I’m a little slow on that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Hypothetically, let’s assume that you’re very unhappy with the policy path that is in this baseline forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: Mr. Evans expresses a lack of understanding or confusion about the forecast, indicating a potential disagreement or contention with the speaker's statements about the policy path.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 283.
 MR. EVANS.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  And so you could imagine, let’s say, that you dissented in the meeting on the policy action.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. This is indicated by the phrase "you dissented in the meeting on the policy action", suggesting that there is a difference of opinion or disagreement about the policy action at the meeting.


Passage number 284.
 MR. EVANS.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You still might say, “Well, I don’t care for this policy path.  But given this policy path, I’m okay with this forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their acceptance or agreement with a certain policy path and forecast.


Passage number 285.
” MR. EVANS.  Yes. I agree completely with that characterization. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Do you agree with that, Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.  I agree with that, except you have people who have actually voted in favor of no action today who are very strongly inclined toward action in the very near future, like me.  I’m looking at this forecast, I’m with President Evans.  As far as the economics go, I’m fine with it, but it really calls into question the appropriateness of the policy.  And so I guess I’ll say—sorry, I guess I’m taking my turn—that I have significant reservations.  I would think you would want to be able to walk into a press conference and be able to say—when you discuss this July 31–forecast, of course—something along the lines of:  “Many participants, including those who voted for it, are concerned about the contours of it and understand that it points toward additional action under some conditions,” or something like that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, that comes back to President Kocherlakota’s point.  You could think, conditional on the policy, that this is a reasonable forecast.  But it looks unsatisfactory from some perspectives, and that might be a case for additional action subsequently.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is agreement in the passage. Both Mr. Evans and Ms. Yellen agree with the characterization, but Ms. Yellen expresses reservations about the appropriateness of the policy and suggests the need for additional action.


Passage number 286.
 MR. EVANS.  I thought it was very informative for exactly those reasons. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes, that’s the idea.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. Both individuals are agreeing and expressing their thoughts on the matter.


Passage number 287.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  I would prefer the Tealbook, but it’s close enough to the consensus that I would be in the consensus. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Rosengren states his preference for the Tealbook but also indicates that he would be willing to go along with the consensus. President Williams' response is not provided in the passage, so we cannot make any determination based on their stance.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 288.
 MR. WILLIAMS. My forecast with the same policy assumptions would be somewhat weaker.  What I’m struggling with is jumping to the conclusion that, yes, the difference in my forecast from the consensus is statistically not important; on a statistical basis, the consensus forecast isn’t that far away.  But from a policy point of view, it’s actually hugely important because my view is that we’re not making any progress on our goals without additional stimulus.  The only way I can get to the consensus forecast is with considerable additional accommodation both in terms of the path of the funds rate and for asset purchases. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We can accept that answer.  We’ll think through how we would advise you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Williams, argues that additional stimulus is necessary to achieve their goals, while the consensus forecast suggests otherwise. This difference in views indicates contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 289.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Okay. I’m just trying to highlight that when people say it’s good enough for government work, that may be true in a statistical sense, but it may send a misleadingJuly 31–signal. For example, from my perspective, I think this would send to me a misleading signal about how strong the economy will be, assuming we never take additional actions, and it sends a signal that we’re not doing more asset purchases and we’re going to raise rates in late 2014. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, the subcommittee should discuss it, but I guess if you disagree to the extent that you think it seriously misrepresents what your policy inclinations are, that might be a basis for not agreeing with it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Williams is expressing his disagreement with the idea that "it's good enough for government work" and arguing that it may send a misleading signal about the strength of the economy.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 290.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman, I’m not sure I heard President Williams.  Did you say that your forecast for the economy doesn’t differ statistically, but the difference is important for your policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. Mr. Lacker expresses uncertainty and questions President Williams' statement, indicating a disagreement or difference in understanding.


Passage number 291.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Pianalto. MS. PIANALTO.  The forecast broadly matches up to my views, and so I can endorse it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. All individuals mentioned agree or endorse the forecast.


Passage number 292.
 MR. PLOSSER. Like President Kocherlakota, my view is that while the top-line numbers are not that much different from what I would predict, my policy path would be different, and in fact under this policy path, I would have a different forecast.  On those grounds, what matters a lot for this is how one interprets both the shocks hitting the economy and what their effects are going to be, and that calls into question, as in President Williams’s case, much different policy forecasts.  But I’d likely be on the other side; adopting the policy in the consensus, my forecast would be quite different.  So I’m not quite sure whether we’re reaching a consensus or whether that’s agreeing with the consensus. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think that means you’d be outside the consensus because you think that this policy will not deliver those numbers.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is not contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage simply discusses different perspectives and how they may lead to different policy forecasts.


Passage number 293.
July 31–MR. PLOSSER.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President George. MS. GEORGE.  I found myself agreeing with the economic variables, but I might choose a different policy path—different enough that I might raise a question. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Plosser agrees with President George on the economic variables, but acknowledges that there might be a different policy path. President Bullard's response is not given, so there is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 294.
 MR. BULLARD.  I think these confidence bands are great, and when I see PCE prices within a couple of tenths of 2 percent and these kinds of confidence bands, I just can’t see that as being very different from hitting the target.  So this is generally very good. I do think the unemployment rate seems to run high compared with the central tendency.  That’s really the key difference between the Committee and what the private sector seems to say:  The Committee is more pessimistic about unemployment rate adjustment quite a ways out, out until the end of 2014, as compared with the private sector, which is just assuming ½ percent a year or something like that, and so they’ve got it down at a lower level.  And of course, that pessimism is informing a lot of judgments here about what the policy should be.  The only other thing I’d say is that if you look at these charts, maybe this would be a good time to take out core PCE prices.  You’ve got headline here, and, of course, we’re looking over the medium term, which this chart already does.  Maybe it’s a good time to put the fed funds chart here instead and have PCE prices and the fed funds rate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Useful, interesting suggestion.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any direct disagreement or contention. It includes Mr. Bullard's positive view of the confidence bands and his suggestion for including the fed funds chart. President Fisher responds positively to the suggestion.


Passage number 295.
 MR. FISHER.  I don’t have a problem with the economic variables, and I think the fan charts are fine.  I do have questions about the policy path, and much like President George, I would have some reservations on that front.  And the reason I looked at my colleague was that I was going to suggest the same thing about core PCE—not to replace it with a funds rate path, butJuly 31–I would suggest removing it because I thought we were going to get away from core PCE and focus on PCE overall.  That would be the only difference, depending on how the group feels. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. Thank you. Governor Yellen, you’ve taken your turn.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  I think yes.  I feel like an Excel spreadsheet caught in a circular reference. [Laughter]  But yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: While there is some discussion and differing opinions on specific aspects, there is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers express their own thoughts and suggestions but do not directly challenge or contradict each other.


Passage number 296.
 MR. TARULLO. I have essentially the same reaction as John. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN. I prefer the Tealbook forecast, but I can support the consensus. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Stein.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Both Mr. Tarullo and Governor Raskin express agreement and support for the Tealbook forecast.


Passage number 297.
 MR. STEIN.  I’m very close to the consensus. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Stein states that he is very close to the consensus, implying agreement rather than disagreement.


Passage number 298.
 MR. POWELL.  I’m okay with the policy path, okay with the forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. Obviously, I think, it qualifies as a consensus in that most people could accept it, and we had people on both sides.  So that was useful.  Thank you.  I’ll turn this over now to Governor Yellen to talk a bit about how we might want to go forward with this. MS. YELLEN.8  Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.  We circulated for your use three questions that our subcommittee would welcome any feedback on in this discussion.  I’ll just kick things off with a few comments.  As we discussed in June, a consensus forecast has the potential to significantly enhance the Committee’s communications by clarifying the rationale for our policy decisions.  We agreed to explore this initiative in a systematic and deliberate 8 The materials used by Ms. Yellen are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). July 31–manner, and I think the experiment we’ve just conducted has served as a very useful first step.  I believe it would be beneficial to proceed with another experiment at the September meeting following a roughly similar time line. One important question is the extent to which participants should be expected to provide input to the Chairman in advance of his initial formulation of the consensus forecast.  In the current experiment, that input was purely optional.  However, such input may be important for the Chairman to gauge the appropriate representation of different views of the participants in his initial formulation.  So I would suggest that starting with the September experiment, we establish an expectation that all participants should provide some form of input to the Chairman in advance of his initial formulation of the consensus forecast.  But an important question is whether or not everyone should be expected to provide quantitative projections in this initial input.  In the current experiment, 11 participants provided quantitative projections, and 3 others provided qualitative information.  In my view, qualitative information can be quite informative about a participant’s current view, and the initial inputs should not be expected to take the form of a quantitative forecast. For example, some participants may wish to indicate in qualitative terms how their views have developed, possibly referring to either the previous consensus forecast or the preliminary staff projections circulated in advance of the Chairman’s initial formulation. A related issue is whether or not participants’ initial input should be compiled and circulated to all participants. In my view, circulating these inputs would be beneficial.  It would help promote openness and transparency.  In addition, circulation of these inputs in advance of the meeting may enhance our deliberations in September.  However, on the question of whether or not the input should be circulated with attribution, I have no strong views.  Of course, if the  July 31–Committee decides to proceed with the second experiment in September, the subcommittee on communications would be happy to work with the Chairman and the staff in setting on the key logistical arrangements for that experiment. Looking ahead yet further, I think that the October meeting would offer good opportunity for the Committee as a whole to thoroughly evaluate the experiences gathered up to that point and to decide whether they’re sufficiently encouraging that the Committee wants to continue with further proofs of concept and trial runs.  If at that meeting the Committee still considers the initiative to be sufficiently promising, it may want to consider a tentative time line for adopting a consensus forecast as a tool for communication, while leaving open the question of whether this initiative will still ultimately be launched. It may also want to discuss a number of important questions that would need to be addressed before publishing a consensus forecast, such as the appropriate specification and role of a reference policy rule that I mentioned yesterday, the specification of policy variants to consider, as well as questions related to the presentation of the consensus forecast and the diversity of views in a quarterly monetary policy report. Let me conclude by saying that my subcommittee would be happy to work with the Chairman to develop a specific set of questions, and we welcome your reactions to these questions in this first trial run. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Let’s get some comments and reactions.  We’ll start with President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a discussion where individuals are giving their opinions and suggestions, but there is no disagreement or argument.


Passage number 299.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman and the staff, for all of the hard work they put into producing the consensus forecast.  I think it’s been a very interesting exercise. I particularly found the two tables in the material distributed to be very useful and informative, but as I noted in our June meeting, I remain very concerned about imposing a sizable additional July 31–burden on the staff unless the benefit is equally sizable.  And as we all know, the Board staff already has a very full plate and preparing a mini-forecast between meetings, if that was necessary for this, adds to that load.  The Chairman said at our last meeting that it was important not to place a net additional burden on the staff, and I wholeheartedly agree.  As our discussions over the last two days show, we still face enormous economic challenges and heightened uncertainty about future events both here and abroad, and the staff should be focused on those issues as well as contingency planning for the possibility of further negative shocks to the economy.  I think—and I’m not sure if this is the way you’re thinking about it—that there may be a simpler way of putting together a coherent consensus forecast with relatively little cost. For example, table 1 in the consensus forecast could be produced by starting with the median SEP projection from the Committee members, which I think is how you started with this one.  And then, Mr. Chairman, you can just adjust the median projection, tweak that as needed to make sure it represents a coherent consensus forecast consistent with the Committee’s policy direction.  Draft consensus table 1 could be circulated on Friday or Monday before the FOMC meeting, and I think that would not have a large cost on the staff.  Of course, the consensus forecast would be updated at the FOMC meeting based on the policy decision and discussions there.  So my recommendation for the next meeting is, as I described, to try to refine the existing SEP process, which we’ll be doing, rather than trying to proceed with a second consensus forecast exercise like the first. As a final note, I very much like table 2 that showed how the forecast would change under alternative monetary policy assumptions.  This is one of the most useful things I’ve gotten in terms of thinking about the policies in alternatives A, B, and C.  I think that such a table should be regularly included in the Tealbook B—so much for my not throwing additional workJuly 31–at the staff. I recognize it is a challenge, having worked in this area myself, to produce alternative staff forecasts that exactly match the statement alternatives A, B, and C, but even preliminary readings on this are exceptionally useful.  It lets us all think about what are really the choices that we’re confronting, given the staff forecast, in thinking about policy liftoff dates or the need for different asset purchases. Also, we saw that little picture earlier showing different alternative forecasts for different alternative policies. I think that’s a great innovation and would like to see that become a regular part of the Tealbook B. A related thing I’d like to mention—and Governor Yellen mentioned this, too—is that we do need to think a little bit more about this policy rule that’s behind the scenes not only in the Tealbook—which I and, I’m sure, many people use as a basis of a lot of our thinking about the economic outlook—but also in terms of preparing these consensus forecasts.  And as Governor Yellen mentioned before, the outcome-based rule may not be the best choice for that, and I think definitely we may want to think about giving the staff direction concerning a preferred policy rule.  It’s important to have a policy rule in these simulations in the Tealbook; that’s just an essential part of thinking about policy.  But right now, I think that’s been a default setting that perhaps isn’t the best for what we’re doing.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is expressing agreement and support for certain aspects of the consensus forecast, while also offering suggestions for improvement. There is no clear contention or disagreement present in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 300.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Let me first take this opportunity to apologize for interrupting President Kocherlakota.  That was unwise of me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker apologizes for interrupting President Kocherlakota, indicating that he acknowledges his behavior was unwise.


Passage number 301.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Accepted.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not present any conflicting ideas or opposing viewpoints. It simply states that someone (Mr. Kocherlakota) is accepted, without providing any further details or context.


Passage number 302.
 MR. LACKER.  I’ll now go on to deliver a lengthy statement. I’m assuming that—but this is a little murky for me—the intention is that this would supplant the SEP mechanism.  Is that correct.July 31–CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That’s a Committee decision, but it’s a possibility if we went to a quarterly monetary policy report.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 303.
 MR. LACKER.  Right. I’m just asking what the communications subcommittee has envisioned proposing.  I’m assuming this wouldn’t be layered on in addition. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I guess that would be my preference, but it’s not pre-programmed.  The Committee will decide that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification and expressing preference, but there is no argument or disagreement present.


Passage number 304.
 MR. LACKER.  Okay. The following remarks are predicated on that.  I think that the SEP is a much more detailed request for forecast information from each participant.  I would be afraid that we would lose something in Committee deliberations in terms of quality if we were to back away from asking for the range of information we get in the SEP.  I think that under our current procedures, a good deal of effort goes into participants’ SEP submissions.  What I have in mind here is avoiding the dangers of herd behavior or free riding on the forecast.  I think that bringing independent views to bear before you get the Tealbook, before you’ve seen everything, is valuable.  The literature on the wisdom of crowds suggests that group opinion mechanisms are more valuable if you’re listening to independent views.  So I’d suggest that we could build this around just an adaptation of the SEP—have that level of submission occur and then work from that material to develop a consensus forecast. Related to this, I think it would be useful and consistent with our traditional philosophy of transparency to find a way to retain the presentation of something like the range and central tendency of participants’ views.  We have these prototype fan charts, and there are these two blue dots for the last meeting’s range.  It would be pretty straightforward to add something to represent the current cycle’s central tendency or range. I understand the value of forming a consensus forecast, but we’re throwing away information.   I think we would also invite the July 31–cynical interpretation that we’re moving to a consensus forecast as a way to suppress the apparent discrepancy between the dot picture in the SEP and the forward guidance in the statement. I applaud the use of confidence bands.  My staff says you call them fan charts only if they’re multicolored; we had this discussion yesterday.  But I’m indifferent as to whether we call them fan charts or not—that’s okay with me. But as I understand it, the fan charts as calculated don’t capture model uncertainty or uncertainty about our policy reaction function, and I think to be faithful at conveying uncertainty, we ought to strive to be as comprehensive as possible in gathering and portraying the uncertainty we have over the forecast. In addition, I strongly believe we should treat the forecast of our policy instrument in a way that’s as parallel as possible to our presentation of things like the GDP and inflation forecasts.  I think President Bullard’s suggestion of putting the fed funds rate in place of the core inflation rate on that first page, if we’re going to do four charts, or even making room for it, if we want to retain core, would be a good idea—and to show it with fan charts, to show uncertainty, because it’s spurious precision to act as though it’s a single path and yet there are error bands around everything else we do.  And I believe this is not that difficult; the staff does it, for example, in the Tealbook all the time. More broadly, I think we need to design this process in a way that handles our policy views in a coherent, clear manner.  We had a little bit of a tangle at the beginning of the last go-round about, well, conditioned on this policy and conditioned on that.  If you take the word “policy” out and substitute one variable for another—like, conditioned on GDP, my forecast for inflation would be different—you can see that it makes more sense to just think of them all as parallel. Further, we are forecasting both the economy and our policy-setting.  Now, that allows   July 31–for commitment. And it doesn’t rule out commitment or some maneuvers to push down the yield curve as we’ve tried. I think I’ll say this as well—if we present a policy forecast as part of our consensus, which I think we should, this would be an ideal vehicle for moving away from the calendar-based forward guidance in the statement. And I’ll just remind you all that we discussed this in January when I first advocated this.  In January, I proposed dropping the forward guidance in favor of the presentation that was in the SEP, and what I was told was that people objected because the statement language represents a Committee consensus.  Well, now we’re going to have a consensus.  So I wouldn’t see the rationale for retaining the forward guidance in the statement—although you could argue that it’s just superfluous and it doesn’t matter whether it’s there or not.  But it’s proven problematic in some regards, so using this vehicle strikes me as an advantage. And let me endorse strongly President Williams’s suggestion that we ask the staff for alternative forecasts under different monetary policy assumptions.  I’ve commented on this before—that they do alternatives for all sorts of crazy real-world shocks, but they don’t do alternatives for the stuff we’re trying to decide on, and I think that’s kind of a shame.  I’d be happy if they cut down on crazy scenarios, too, so that we avoid overburdening the staff.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I don’t want to get off track, but on this issue of constructing the fan charts, you use historical forecast errors, right.  Simulated forecast errors.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion and suggestions, but there is no mention of any conflicting views or arguments.


Passage number 305.
 MR. REIFSCHNEIDER.  Well, they’re stochastic simulations.  The way to think about it is, you have to choose a rule—that’s critical.  And then you’re just having the funds rate respond, as the rule would dictate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No, I understand, but the stochastic simulation is drawing from a distribution of historical forecast errors or not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any disagreement or contention between the speakers. It is a clarification of the concept being discussed.


Passage number 306.
  July 31–MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. It’s drawing from a distribution not of forecast errors but of historical shocks to the economy, and it’s stochastic, so it’s running through dynamic responses to the sorts of shocks we’ve seen historically.  Under current circumstances, that gives you— because of zero bound, for example—a very skewed distribution. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining a concept or process without any conflicting points of view.


Passage number 307.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Thank you, President Lacker, for your apology.  I’ll be brief. As Presidents Williams and Lacker did, I found table 2 to be extremely useful, and it would be great to have future Tealbook Bs include some table like that where the various policies, I guess, are related to the alternatives A, B, and C that we’re contemplating. I also like President Williams’s idea of allowing the Chairman to create the first draft, at least, of the consensus forecast based on the SEP submissions, and then tweaking that.  I thought that was a very good idea. I think there’s a timing issue we have to solve with the experiment.  The consensus forecast is going to be prepared before the meeting.  Then today, for example, alternative B allowed the Committee the opportunity to change the date in the statement to mid-2015.  In principle, the Committee could have chosen to adopt alternative A, alternative C, or elements of all three alternatives, I guess.  Once the Committee makes a decision, the forecast is going to have to be updated in some fashion.  So this could create a little bit of a logistical problem, and here are the issues. I think the forecast should be based on the outcome of the vote in the meeting.  Participants should have some opportunity to comment on the forecast before it’s released to the public.  The statement should be released shortly after the vote, and the press conference should take place relatively shortly after the release of the statement. The forecast should be made available to the public at the time of the press conference, and the press   July 31–conference should take place at least 24 hours before the end of the blackout period.  [Laughter] So these are the constraints. I think there’s a timing box here.  I think we have to build in some extra delay somewhere, but I’m not sure where.  I would suggest delaying the press conference by 24 hours.  Maybe that would be enough time to get everything done.  I’m certainly not trying to take a stand on what the right answer is. The issue is that we’re going to have a vote in the meeting—the policy decision is, obviously, not determined before we have the meeting—and then the forecast is going to have to be tweaked based on that.  I think people are going to want to have a chance to comment on that as well, and then how we resolve the rest of that I’m not sure. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 308.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I don’t have specific ideas as to how this should be resolved, but I do have a few higher-level observations.  One, I do think the process needs to be somewhat iterative.  And I was one of the scofflaws—apparently only two—who didn’t inject themselves into this process this time so I endorse Janet’s view that there should be something compulsory about participation beforehand.  My second point is that this really does have to be a consensus in the sense of reflecting a collective judgment by the Committee or, perhaps more accurately, the Chairman helping to forge a collective judgment by the Committee. I’m more than a bit concerned that if we end up with both an SEP and the collective forecast, we’re going to be sowing more confusion rather than less confusion.  Then taking account of Jeff’s desire to have some more transparency and make sure that the views of individuals are not completely lost here, I think that Narayana’s timing issue comes back to the fore, because I think you’re going to need a process, Janet, by which people get to express—initially at least—their own views.  Maybe there’s some transparency associated with those views, but the process then July 31–intervenes so that at the end, there’s a collective judgment as developed and articulated by the Chairman both in quantitative terms and verbally at the press conference.  And with that, at least, I think the world, at least the informed and thoughtful world, will be able to reconcile whatever these two different pieces of information are—whether it’s, I hope not an SEP but an SEP-like polling function beforehand and the eventual outcome—because there will have been this lapse of time during which everybody understands that iteration will have taken place.  Those are the only two things on which I feel strongly.  Everything else I’m happy to defer to the judgment of you and your subcommittee. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is offering higher-level observations and expressing agreement with the views of others.


Passage number 309.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Before I answer Janet’s questions, I’d like to just go over a few points.  Some of these are fairly basic, but they helped me at least clarify my thinking.  First, I understand that the purpose is to elucidate the rationale for a decision that was just made by the Committee and would be explained, for example, in your press conference.  And I agree that the consensus forecast idea conveys more information than the central tendencies in the SEPs that would be otherwise published about the same time.  The short discussion yesterday clarified in my mind what you, as the Chairman, have in mind, and that is, you have an ex post consensus forecast on what the recent decision is expected to accomplish, as opposed to an ex ante outlook to which the policy decision reacted.  And I had something in mind coming into yesterday’s meeting that I think is simpler and easier. It’s not perfect at all, but it does bring into greater relief what I think is an issue, and that is, what’s the policy assumption on which we’re all premising the exercise.  So for the good of the order, let me just walk you through how I thought this was going to operate—that is, we might use the Tealbook for reference, and we would submit forecasts similar to an SEP, premised on theJuly 31–existing policy stance, the one that had been decided at the last meeting.  The Chairman would then work with this input to craft a consensus proposal.  Everyone would react to that and, conceivably at that stage or a later stage, either endorse it or not.  The final consensus forecast would be completed, with exhibits and so forth.  That would be a forecast that preceded the FOMC meeting and serves as a basis for understanding the decision that the Committee arrived at.  And then, when you would explain it, you would have to emphasize—and this is not easy, because it could be very confusing to the public—that this is not a post-decision forecast.  This is a decision on which people formed their policy recommendation at the meeting. I do think this question of the policy assumption is very important, and I think it was already reflected in the brief discussion we had earlier.  Now, to the questions.  First, do I think the general approach used in the exercise would be helpful.  Yes, if we don’t get bogged down in this policy assumption complication.  There are various policy assumptions at work, and therefore it’s not apples to apples in terms of the input.  What elements would I suggest be modified in future experiments.  In my mind, if we could agree on the mechanics, we could go to a true trial run next time around, meaning that we would have some kind of explicit policy assumption on which we based our inputs; inputs would be mandatory.  We would submit on exact dates, try to run through a pre-meeting endorsement or feedback on exact dates, and see if some of the mechanical questions that President Kocherlakota raised are actually going to work in real time. I do have a little bit of a problem with the confidence interval exhibits.  I don’t really find the confidence intervals from model-based simulations very informative.  I’m not sure the public is going to find them very informative.  As an alternative, I’d suggest we use subjective probabilities provided by each participant, something similar to the approach that’s used in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s surveyJuly 31–of primary dealers and other surveys.  And then from subjective probability distributions, one could derive the Committee’s sense of the risks for each economic variable.  At 70 percent or 90 percent in some of the economic indicators, the spread in the confidence intervals would be viewed by the general public as so wide as to be inclusive of practically every outcome.  So I’d like us to think about some other approach, if that’s possible. I definitely support a second experiment.  In response to the question “If the Committee proceeds with a second experiment, to what extent should participants . . . provide input to the Chairman in advance of his initial preparation of the consensus forecast.” I very much think that’s what we should do.  If it’s based on something similar to the SEP submissions, that’s fine.  And then I would certainly not object to having my input circulated or circulated with attribution—no objection there.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  I think central banks use both approaches, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing agreement with the general approach and offering suggestions for modifications, but there is no argument or disagreement expressed towards any specific points.


Passage number 310.
 MR. KAMIN. The Bank of England— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. —uses an ex ante type of approach—right.—because it uses the market path.  Is that right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply seeking confirmation or clarification about the Bank of England's approach.


Passage number 311.
 MR. KAMIN.  On the policy path, yes, the Bank of England uses both a flat path and something that comes out of markets. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any conflicting views or arguments. It simply states that the Bank of England uses both a flat path and something that comes out of markets on the policy path.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 312.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I think this is a useful exercise, and so, in response to the questions, I think we should keep going.  But I’m going to propose a second experiment that’s a little bit different than what we did as the first experiment.  The experiment I’d like to run is a little bit more elaborate and somewhat more decentralized, and it would go like this.  PeopleJuly 31–would submit their forecasts, or they would default to some preliminary Tealbook forecast, made under three different monetary policy assumptions specified by the Chairman.  You could think of that as alternative A, alternative B, and alternative C, and presumably those monetary policy assumptions would span the range of views of the Committee participants.  The Chairman would then prepare a consensus forecast from all of those submissions for each of the three monetary policy paths.  You’d actually get to see how the consensus forecast was sensitive to the monetary policy assumptions of the Committee.  And then participants at the end would be quizzed about which of these things that they actually favored—which was the consensus of the consensus, so to speak.  I think this approach would actually work better than what we have right now, because it would provide greater clarity about the source of agreement and disagreement within the Committee. Let me give you an example so I can explain what I mean by this. Let’s imagine that we’re in a circumstance today that one does not favor more policy accommodation.  This could be the case for several distinct reasons.  One might decide that greater stimulus was not warranted because one had a more optimistic growth forecast—that’s a difference in forecast. Or one might decide that greater stimulus was not warranted because one thought that policy stimulus would generate only very small gains.  You just thought that the cost–benefit calculation of additional stimulus was poor.  For example, you might think that a large-scale asset purchase program wouldn’t do very much.  It wouldn’t be that you disagreed about the forecast, but you disagreed that the policy tool would actually drive significant improvement.  Or you might be in line with the consensus for the first two, but you might not prefer greater stimulus because you had a different reaction function and you weighted the inflation and the unemployment objectives differently.  Right now, I think it’s very difficult for us to tease those three things out.  And if you started with three different monetary policy assumptions, got people July 31–to submit their forecasts relative to those monetary policy assumptions, and saw where people landed, you actually would be able to tease out a good deal of where people agree and disagree within the Committee. I think this would be a little bit more interactive and  would allow us to really play on what’s driving the differences—is it the policy assumptions, is it the forecasts, or is it the reaction function.  And so I would propose this as a second type of experiment. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The author proposes a second experiment that would provide greater clarity about the source of agreement and disagreement within the Committee. They believe this approach would work better than the current one and provide a more interactive way to understand what is driving the differences among the participants.


Passage number 313.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Well, I thought this was a very useful exercise. The issues that Governor Yellen raised in terms of participants providing input and circulating inputs—those things would be very helpful and we should continue to make progress on them.  I was listening to Dennis very carefully, and I thought I was in complete agreement with him right up until he got to that subjective probability stuff, and then I wasn’t quite sure.  But then again, I was with Vice Chairman Dudley, too, until he started with three different assumptions.  I think those are all very interesting ideas, and if we have a lot of time to work through them, they’ll be quite useful.  [Laughter] As I say, I like the initial exercise; as a communication device for the Committee, it was useful.  It focused on our areas of agreement, which I thought was very useful.  A lot of times, with the SEPs, for some reason our eyes are drawn to the outliers and the ranges.  I thought that the common monetary policy assumption was really critical, because I might not agree with it, but at least, you tell me this is the assumption, and then I’ll tell you what my inflation outlook is going to be.  President Lacker will approach it the same way, right.  And that’ll provide a lot of the information that’s relevant for this.  Another alternative might be if you identify who the participant is and I have some idea of the kind of model of the economy that person is working their way through, there’ll be more information, but probably not a tremendous amount.  At any  July 31–rate, it could be useful.  Frankly, I think what’s really important here is whatever helps you in your press conference discuss the outlook in a coherent fashion.  You always do it coherently, but you’re provided a collection of forecasts that don’t speak well among themselves because we have different policy assumptions.  I would think that something that you have looked at very carefully, and in some sense own, would help facilitate your discussions, and it would be useful if you provided some preferences on that.  But I think that it will be useful to continue to make progress.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing agreement and appreciation for the ideas and exercises discussed.


Passage number 314.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply starts with someone addressing the chairman.


Passage number 315.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  Could I just ask President Evans—when you said “conditioning on the forecast,” what did you mean.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Lacker is simply seeking clarification from President Evans about his statement.


Passage number 316.
 MR. EVANS.  I’m sorry. I must have misspoken.  Conditioning on whatever the common monetary policy assumption is that we’re given.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Evans simply corrects himself and acknowledges a mistake in his initial statement.


Passage number 317.
 MR. LACKER.  What do you mean by that.  Do you mean a single point path for the funds rate or a reaction function.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification on the meaning of a term.


Passage number 318.
 MR. EVANS. I’m sorry. I can’t recall exactly where in my comments you’re taking this from.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply expressing a lack of recollection and apologizing for not being able to provide the specific details requested.


Passage number 319.
 MR. LACKER.  Because I don’t think anywhere now we’re asked to provide a forecast conditional on a path for policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion about the current expectation of providing a forecast based on a policy path.


Passage number 320.
 MR. EVANS.  No, we’re not.  We’re asked to do appropriate monetary policy, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Evans is affirming that they are asked to carry out appropriate monetary policy.


Passage number 321.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.  Oh, okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 322.
 MR. EVANS. No, that’s our current assumption under SEPs, going all the way back to when Don Kohn’s subcommittee came up with it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage describes a current assumption without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 323.
  July 31–MR. LACKER.  So is that what you were referring to.  Is that what you meant— “conditioning on appropriate policy”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. Explanation: The passage is a question and does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 324.
 MR. EVANS. Well, no. I thought what was useful here was that—and this is my interpretation—if there’s a policy path—a funds rate path—and if we all come up with our forecast based on that policy assumption, then I know how to interpret what those forecasts mean.  So you might have a high inflation forecast; I might have a lower inflation forecast— something like that. But the policy path is common across that.  I think that would be informative for the Chairman and whoever else is looking at this forecast.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their interpretation of a situation and explaining how a common policy path can help in interpreting different forecasts.


Passage number 325.
 MR. LACKER.  But that’s asking us to forecast what the economy would have to do to make us want to choose that funds rate path.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing a statement without opposing or conflicting views.


Passage number 326.
 MR. EVANS.  This is an assumption about an exogenous policy variable and how the forecast would respond.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply describes an assumption made about an exogenous policy variable and how the forecast would respond to it.


Passage number 327.
 MR. LACKER.  Well, that’s a different question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is a simple response to a question.


Passage number 328.
 MR. EVANS.  Well, that’s how I would interpret our instruction. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  That was what you were suggesting, Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating how they would interpret the instruction.


Passage number 329.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Well, the point is, in my version, you get three different monetary policy paths that span the Committee’s preferences.  And so you get forecasts that are somehow consistent across the possible outcomes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The problem is that it’s not truly endogenous.  What you really want, in principle, I assume, is some kind of reaction function that you’d stick into your model.  And then you’d jointly generate the path of output and inflation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is discussing different approaches to monetary policy and acknowledging the limitations of one of the approaches.


Passage number 330.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. In my rendition, you’re going to figure out the reaction function by the choices people make at the end.  They’re going to be faced with a GDP/inflation July 31–or an unemployment/inflation forecast under three different paths for monetary policy.  They’re going to have three sets of these things, and then their reaction function is exhibited by what they select at the end. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is describing a hypothetical scenario without presenting any conflicting ideas or opinions.


Passage number 331.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have just a few comments.  I’m a big supporter of this exercise, and I think this initial round has been carried out very well.  So do I think we should do more.  Yes, I do.  We have to keep an eye on the final product, which would be a monetary policy report and the kinds of things that would go in there.  I think there would be a lot more information, at least in my mind, that would flesh out, maybe, some of the issues that are being discussed here in the final product, the final monetary policy report. A lot of people are talking about the policy assumption conundrum, and I have a suggestion for this.  I think it would be much simpler and cut through a lot of confusion if we just based the forecast on the market assumption at the time the forecast is made. This is, as I understand it, what the Bank of England does.  This would give the forecast more of a flavor of, “Given what the market thinks that we’re going to do, here’s what we think is going to happen.”  And you could even put a date on that and say that we took the market expectation as of such and such a date.  Then you don’t get into the position that you decided something different at the meeting, and now you’ve got to iterate around to get the right forecast. Now, this is a brilliant thing that the Bank of England did, because market expectations in most circumstances are not going to be too different from where the Committee expects to go, and if they are a lot different, we should be asking ourselves a lot of questions about why we have a 90-degree angle between our views and the market’s views.  Most of the time, that’s going to work very well, and I would say if those expectations are a lot out of line, then it’s up to the Chairman and other Committee members to try to nudge them back into line with what’s likely to happen.  The other thing that’s   July 31–brilliant about it is that it does put out a realistic forecast, but it allows the Committee to come back later and say, “Look, we changed our mind, and we’re going to do X or we’re going to do Y.” I wouldn’t expect that to happen a lot, but it does give the Committee that freedom to act.  For example, you might think of an intermeeting action, which has sometimes occurred in the last five years; something comes up, and you really have to move in a different direction.  The other thing about taking the market expectation of policy is that you can take all aspects of policy.  It could be everything from reducing the IOER rate to the balance sheet to funds rate dates and all those things together. My only other comment is on these confidence intervals.  They are model based.  I think they’re fine, but as the Chairman was talking about, you could use historical forecast errors from the Greenbook and Tealbook, and maybe that would be a way to capture the full extent of the uncertainty that we’ve experienced since we’ve been keeping track of those errors; I’m not sure quite how long that has been, but it goes a ways back.  In my mind, that is a more all-encompassing measure of uncertainty.  I don’t know if those bands are actually bigger or smaller, but those would be interesting.  And that would be one way to keep it a little bit model free, because otherwise you’re saying that everyone is committed to that model and everybody thinks that that model is a particularly good model. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  One difference between the Bank of England and the Fed is that they at least nominally have a single target.  So you can look at the forecast and see whether it hits the inflation target or not, and that’s a way of signaling to the market whether they should be tightening or loosening their expectations.  With two objectives, unless you give them the reaction function, it’s a little more subtle.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses support for the current exercise and suggests some ideas to improve it, but there is no disagreement or argument presented.


Passage number 332.
 July 31–MR. BULLARD.  In my experience, the British approach to monetary policy isn’t any different than the U.S. approach to monetary policy. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. There are a few people in the Congress you should talk to.  President George. MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As I think I noted at the last meeting, given some of our well-tested communications, such as the minutes and the statement we use, I was more willing to push more on the SEP to see whether we could enhance it more and use its diversity of views.  But I would be willing to look at that in terms of attribution, even highlighting who the Committee members, as a way to leverage that diversity of views. Having said that, I’m willing to go forward with other iterations of this experiment. I think it would be worthwhile to have some more reps to see how this plays out with respect to the input and how it gets to something, which Vice Chairman Dudley mentioned, that I would like to see—more focus on where we differ on policy paths and what the assumptions are. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are expressing their opinions and discussing potential changes to monetary policy, but there is no direct disagreement or argument between them.


Passage number 333.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  This has been a fascinating discussion, I have to confess, and I wanted to go near the end, in part because I wanted to hear what people were thinking.  I’ve come away with probably more questions than answers, and I’m open to lots of different ideas.  I’ll just react to some things that people have said, all of which I think had merit to them. John Williams’s suggestion about simplifying and using the SEP to leverage up has a lot of merit to it—to reduce costs. I am inclined to believe the SEP is still a powerful use of information and a communication device and a transparency device. I tend not to be in favor of replacing this, which leads me to the question of whether we envision doing this every meeting or only once a quarter.  One question that crops up in this discussion—if we’re reallyJuly 31–going to use it as a consensus forecast that justifies a particular meeting’s decision, then you’re almost forced into doing it on an every meeting basis.  That may be more than we want to do.  If you’re not going to do that, then you need to think of other objectives you’re trying to achieve through this thing, and I think there are a number of them.  One of the questions that come to mind goes back to the governance issue:  However we manage this process, we want to be careful that we not have a pre-meeting meeting and in some sense decide before we actually get to our meeting.  That raises all sorts of iterative questions about how we converge on this.  I think that’s going to be a challenge. In many ways, I’m very attracted to Vice Chairman Dudley’s suggestion about doing some scenarios.  I think there could be a lot of value to that.  There is a subtle question about whether this is endogenous or exogenous and how we think about that.  I’m not sure I’ve come down strongly either way, but I’m really attracted to allowing participants to generate their forecasts based on different assumptions about policy.  That could be very revealing both internally and, perhaps, for other purposes as well.  How we view this as going into a larger project, as Jim and I have been arguing for some time in terms of a monetary policy report— again, whether this is quarterly, every meeting, or what—and how all of these pieces fit together remain to be seen. One thing that was missing from this exercise that I think is going to be important going forward—one of the things that gives us value outside of whatever the consensus might be—is going to be the nature of the discussions about the varying views that goes with this.  And at some point, we’re going to have to figure out how to put that on paper, too, to make sure that we get the richness of what it is we’re to achieve in this process. I want to make one other point.  This notion of standard errors—I believe standard errors are huge on our forecasts and everything else we do, but one of the things that we know from ourJuly 31–policy rule experiments is that sometimes small differences in the variables in the reaction function can have very different policy implications.  Just to say that we’re all falling within the standard errors of these things is really not very helpful in that context.  That doesn’t mean the standard errors aren’t large, but there are subtle differences about what the policy implications might be from smaller differences.  There’s uncertainty, and then there’s that small difference that may lead some of us to have very different policy paths, because small differences can make a difference in that. I think that raises a whole host of questions in my mind about a number of things, but it does apply here, too. A lot of this discussion suggests to me that we need to proceed with this because there’s value to it, but I do believe that we’re going to have to experiment some internally.  And it may take us a while to figure out what it is we want to get out of this at the end of the day and what’s the best way to do it effectively. I think we should proceed apace, run some experiments, be willing to try some different things and react to them.  We’re going to try some things and throw them out, perhaps, but I think in some of these cases, we’re not going to be solving the problem in the abstract.  We’re going to have to see how it works.  So I’m very encouraged.  I also find it very interesting, and I think we should continue with the experiments. I’d like to say one other thing.  I want to echo what Presidents Kocherlakota and Williams suggested about table 2.  It would be very nice to be able to see that, or something like that, on a fairly regular basis. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a reflection of the ideas and suggestions that were discussed in a meeting. There is no disagreement or contention evident in the passage.


Passage number 334.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The only thought I had, and I guess I came to this independently, is exactly the same point that President Lockhart articulated and a number of others have since endorsed, which is, I think it would be a good idea to have the forecast be based on an exogenously anchored policy path—for example, exactly as in your example, President Lockhart: that which came out of the previous meeting, as opposed to some notion of   July 31–an endogenously optimal path.  Aside from simplifying things and just making our own task easier, if we’re thinking of this primarily as a communications device and we’re trying to tell the world the story of why we’re choosing to make a particular policy action, I think it just makes the communication much clearer. And let me give an extreme, stylized example, which will exaggerate the point: Imagine that we had a single mandate and all we cared about was 2 percent inflation in the long run.  And suppose we got it into our heads that we were worried about inflation expectations in 2015 picking up, so we needed to raise rates. You want to explain why you raised rates.  Well, if you do the forecast based on your endogenously optimal path, all you’ll see is that inflation will be 2 percent.  You’ll see the rates moving around, but you’ll never be able to say, “Well, there’s this counterfactual world where, if we hadn’t taken action, something would have gone wrong.”  Whereas in a fixed path, you can say, “Well, if we had kept to our old policy, rates were going to go up,” and then it’ll make it natural.  And of course, you could augment this by doing what Vice Chairman Dudley suggests, by having multiple paths.  But I think the key in either thing is that you need an anchor.  That’s come out in the discussion, and I just wanted to endorse that as a concept. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is agreeing with President Lockhart and a number of others who have endorsed the idea of having the forecast based on an exogenously anchored policy path for better communication. The speaker provides an example to support their point and concludes by endorsing the concept of having an anchor in the forecast.


Passage number 335.
 MR. POWELL.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Just a couple of things.  First, I do think that a consensus forecast and QMPR constitute a better place to be. It’s a better end state than what we have now, and I think we’re making progress toward it.  I’ll admit that it is orders of magnitude more complicated and difficult than I had any thought that it might be.  I like a lot of ideas around the table.  I like the idea that it’s mandatory, but as Governor Duke pointed out, for Governors—for me, anyway—the Tealbook is hugely important in developing my—so far, one—SEP.  And to try to do it two weeks before the Tealbook, we’d be calling on the same staff   July 31–two weeks before putting the SEP together.  So I don’t know what the answer is with that, but it’s a difference, I think, from the presidents.  I also like some of Bill’s ideas. Bottom line: I think it’s definitely a great idea to go ahead.  Without a lot more meetings like this or a lot of time spent with Governor Yellen and Governor Raskin and the subcommittee and others, I’m not sure where I’d come out on these things.  I will agree, though, that having an exogenous policy path is, to quote President Bullard, a brilliant idea. So I like that, and I’ll just leave it at that. Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you very much.  This has been very helpful.  I’ve heard a lot of support for the concept in general.  A couple of ideas that were raised were the questions of whether the forecast should be, in some sense, ex ante or ex post and how we should specify policy paths.  Governor Yellen, did you have anything else. MS. YELLEN. No. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any final comments.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


