Passage number 1.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, I presume that the effect of the money market funds’ activities that Brian mentioned is reflected in an increase in excess balances held by us.  Is that correct, Brian.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher is simply seeking clarification from Brian about the effect of money market funds' activities on excess balances.


Passage number 2.
 MR. SACK.  The aggregate amount of reserves in the system isn’t going to change, but this is a change in the flow of those investments.  So essentially, the money funds are taking money out of repo, and actually out of some bank liabilities, and increasing their holdings of deposits at other financial institutions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement is explaining a change in the flow of investments in the system, but it does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 3.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions.  [No response]  All right.  Seeing none, let’s hear very briefly from Louise.  I’m interested in any feedback we might get on either the substance or the process that we worked through when we got the payment plan done.  Louise. MS. ROSEMAN.  Thanks.  We had put procedures in place to address how government payments would be handled if the debt ceiling wasn’t increased in a timely way.  Those procedures have evolved fairly substantially in the past week or two, and they weren’t finalized until Friday evening or fully documented until yesterday afternoon. Let me walk through what the current assumptions would have been.  The procedures are based on three principles.  The first one is that principal and interest on Treasury securities would continue to be made on time.  The second one is that other payments may be delayed.  The third principle is that any payments that were made would be settled as usual. So how do you implement those three principles.  With respect to the first, the principal on Treasury securities that are maturing would be funded by having auctions that would roll over those maturing securities into new issues, so the new issues would be able to fund the redemption of the maturing securities.  With respect to interest payments, the way the Treasury planned to ensure that it would be able to pay interest payments timely by holding back other government payments and accumulating sufficient cash balances in its Fed account to pay upcoming coupon payments.  The implication of this approach would be that the Treasury would be delaying non-P&I payments even on days when it may have ample balances in its Fed account to have been able to make those payments if it had so chosen.  Instead, the Treasury would be conserving that cash to be able to ensure that it would be able to pay future-dated interest payments.  Then, to ensure that payments made would settle as usual, the Treasury would not submit any ACH files to the Reserve Banks for processing unless it was certain that it would have sufficient balances on the settlement date to settle those transactions.  Similarly, for checks, the Treasury would not mail checks out to the intended recipients until it was sure that it would have sufficient balances in its account to fund the presentment of those checks once they came back to the Fed.  And for Fedwire funds transfers, the Treasury would not make funds transfers unless it had sufficient balances in its Fed account to do so. So this, compared with the procedures Treasury had mapped out just several weeks ago, provides a much higher level of assurance for the banking industry that the payments they do get would be settled using normal procedures.  It also provides assurance to the recipients of those payments that they would have good funds as they typically would.  But it would result in delays in payments, and in particular, payments that do not relate to principal and interest.  The other thing I should mention is, because the Treasury was ensuring that P&I payments would be made on schedule, it avoided a lot of very potentially disruptive effects if it missed a coupon payment or missed a scheduled redemption of maturing securities. These, at least, are current procedures that have been codified into a special operating circular that was developed jointly by the Reserve Banks, the staff here at the Board, and at the Treasury, and has been approved by the Treasury as reflecting what it would like the Reserve Banks to do as its fiscal agents if it ever came to that. We were positioned, in the event a deal wasn’t struck, to issue this circular to the industry so it would understand what the rules of the game would be.  And there were a lot of other associated customer communications that were developed, and stand ready just in case, though we no longer think we would need to use them. So with that, let me open it up to see if there are any comments or questions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Comments or questions for Louise.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 4.
 MR. LACKER.  Mr. Chairman, did you say you were interested in feedback on these processes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The response is a simple affirmation of agreement with the question asked by Mr. Lacker.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 5.
 MR. LACKER.  I would remark that I received a couple of inquiries last week from banking industry participants in our District, wondering if they should do contingency planning.  I advised them that they should always be doing contingency planning.  But I was hamstrung, being unable to give them more guidance to shape their planning.  And I’m sure this is something that’s dawned on everyone involved in this process this time around, but more timely guidance to the banking industry is one potential opportunity for improvement.  You know, I’m not in a position to judge how that would trade off against other considerations that molded the planning in this event, but I’ll just register that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Let me respond to that.  That was a very difficult problem.  Clearly, our general tendency is to want to do contingency planning well in advance and make sure everybody’s well prepared, and in this case, perhaps we should have.  We’ll have to think about that for the future.  In this case, though, it was certainly complicated by the fact that the Treasury’s own plans kept changing, and we weren’t entirely clear about what they wanted to do, which obviously was very important.  The other issue is that there was always a consideration of whether or not too much explicit attention on these issues was destabilizing rather than stabilizing.  But other than acknowledging that this was a complicated calculation, I take your point, and a number of other people have made the same general observation. Any other questions for Louise.  Louise, on an operational basis, was there anything in this experience that we should work on going forward, either in terms of the coordination among the Board, the Reserve Banks, and the Treasury, or in terms of the mechanics of our payment system that we should be thinking about as a broader matter. MS. ROSEMAN.  Well, actually, the current approach requires very little change on the part of the Reserve Banks in how they would process payments because the contingency plans were based on the assumption is that by the time the payments hit the Fed, they would be processed as usual. One of the reasons, I think, that a lot of the changes were made in the recent weeks is that it was only recently that senior policymakers, here at the Board and at the Treasury and elsewhere, paid very serious attention to what the procedures would be, and questioned, perhaps, whether that was the appropriate approach.  Planning had been under way for months, but it was only recently that there were questions raised about whether there were better approaches that would provide a higher degree of certainty to the recipients of the payments.  And I think we ended up in a better place than where we started out. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. Mr. Lacker believes that there should have been more timely guidance given to the banking industry for contingency planning, while President Kocherlakota offers reasons why this may have been difficult or undesirable.


Passage number 6.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I had one quick question, which is that it seems the Treasury’s planning was, as you suggested, Louise, quite fluid.  If we were in the middle of having hit the debt ceiling and the Treasury changed its mind about how it wanted to prioritize principal and interest payments, would we be in a position to accommodate that change of mind from an operational standpoint. MS. ROSEMAN.  This is something that I know the New York Fed has been paying a lot of attention to.  You’re asking, if the Treasury changed its mind again and it would not be prioritizing P&I, how would that work.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply asking a question about the Treasury's planning and how it might impact the prioritization of principal and interest payments.


Passage number 7.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That’s correct. MS. ROSEMAN.  Actually, that would be something that the Federal Reserve would be able to implement.  The challenge is whether other market participants would be able to deal with it in their systems.  So it wasn’t an issue as much of whether Reserve Bank systems would be capable of handling delayed coupon payments or delayed redemption of matured securities, but whether the other participants, the counterparties, would have similar capabilities.  And based on very limited discussions, there would be very big operational challenges and probably a lot of disruption associated with the limitations in their systems.  This is because when market participants developed their programs, they never contemplated the possibility of not having timely payments, and therefore, their systems weren’t designed along those lines.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is an explanation of the challenges associated with implementing delayed coupon payments or delayed redemption of matured securities.


Passage number 8.
 MR. SACK.  Could I emphasize that point.  The market relies on a lot of firms to provide key infrastructure.  Those firms have very complicated systems.  We’re talking about the clearing banks, the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, the dealers, and the brokers.  What we saw as the debt ceiling approached was an attempt by the industry to begin to contingency plan basically through SIFMA, but it faced a considerable challenge because it did not know the exact treatment of payments for which it was contingency planning, and, therefore, it was unable to get to a well-coordinated, very effective approach across the industry.  So I think the point that President Lacker made about the banks applies equally as strongly to this set of market participants.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the following passage. The speaker is simply emphasizing a point and agreeing with President Lacker's statement about the banks' situation applying to other market participants as well.


Passage number 9.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you.  That was very helpful. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Louise, going in the other direction, so this question was about defaulting, not prioritizing.  In the past, the Congress has excepted certain components from the debt limit where in this case there was a bill, the Toomey bill, that would have forced the Treasury to prioritize not just principal and interest, but other major categories of spending.  Would we have been able to do that. MS. ROSEMAN.  Well, I think the challenge would be more on the Treasury side.  What the Treasury would have needed to do is to give us certain types of payments and not give us other types of payments, and I know that it had concerns about its operational capability of carrying that out.  But frankly, the Treasury had concerns about some of the approaches we’ve ultimately adopted that in the past week or so that it has now decided it would be able to do after all.  So I suspect that it would, with sufficient lead time—at least in weeks, not days—be able to accommodate that.  But it’s something that until you have developed the procedures and tested the procedures, your comfort level is pretty low. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Any other questions.  [No response]  Seeing none, Mike, would you say a few words about what we’re seeing in banks and what guidance we’re giving them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not demonstrate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 10.
 MR. FOLEY.  The only thing about that that I’m probably able to comment on is that it does seem like there’s been almost a one-to-one relationship between the incremental deposits coming in and the increase in the Fed deposits.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states an observation about the relationship between incremental deposits and the increase in Fed deposits without expressing any disagreement or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 11.
 MR. ENGLISH.  One thing that could happen if policy were being implemented in more or less the usual way is if people wanted reserves, they’d push up the federal funds rate, and the Desk, in responding to the higher federal funds rate, would be adding reserves, and so potentially the supply of reserves would be elastic.  Now, how elastic it would be in that situation I’m not sure, but the Desk would be aiming to keep the fed funds rate at the target level, and a high demand for reserves would lead them to add reserves. MS. DUKE.  I guess my question, though, is if deposits are flowing in everywhere, I can see who would want to lend reserves.  I just can’t see who would want to borrow those reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. English and Ms. Duke are discussing the potential factors that could impact the supply and demand of reserves, but they are simply sharing their perspectives and asking questions rather than disagreeing with each other.


Passage number 12.
 MR. ENGLISH.  That’s exactly the point.  People would want to accumulate the reserves, so the demand for reserves would be higher. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.
Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement evident in the given passage. Mr. English is stating his opinion and President Fisher does not provide any conflicting statement.


Passage number 13.
 MR. FISHER.  I just want to get oriented here.  I’ve been out of the country for a little bit, but when we last met as a Federal Open Market Committee, I think excess reserves were running around $900 billion—am I correct that they’re currently running about $1.24 trillion.  Does anybody, Brian or anybody else, have a sense of those numbers.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification and asking for confirmation of certain numbers.


Passage number 14.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Excess reserves are about $1.6 trillion, I believe, and they were at the time of the last meeting as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of factual information.


Passage number 15.
 MR. FISHER.  So we haven’t seen it all run into excess reserves then.  That’s the point.  There’s not much of a change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is a statement of fact without any explicit contention or disagreement.


Passage number 16.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Well, as Brian noted earlier, our operations determine the amount of reserves.  So once we completed our purchase program at the end of June, reserves were whatever they were, and since then reserves have moved around, but they have not increased.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating a fact about reserves, without any argument or contradiction.


Passage number 17.
 MR. FISHER.  Thanks, Bill. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Other questions for Mike.  Mike.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply a request for additional questions for Mike.


Passage number 18.
 MR. FOLEY.  Just one more point.  The general risk aversion and the disruption and stress in the short-term markets have also affected the foreign banking organizations.  It’s been most evident at the weaker firms, the French firms in particular.  SocGen has talked about significant maturities over the course of this week and next week.  If it is unable to roll those, it may be in a position where it has to implement its contingency funding plan.  BNP indicated that a number of its counterparties were requesting buybacks of CDs over the course of the past week.  Calyon also has a very large number of maturities coming up.  So those firms are being affected—I think the core European firms to a lesser extent, but clearly these issues and the general risk aversion has affected funding for the European firms. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  If there are no more questions, why don’t we go on now to Bill English, who will talk about some of the prospective options in case either things worsen from here or we have a similar situation in the future.  Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states some facts about the impact of risk aversion on foreign banking organizations, specifically the French firms. There is no evident disagreement or contention.


Passage number 19.
 MR. SACK.  No, nothing to add.  Thanks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Sack is expressing that he has nothing more to add to the conversation and expressing gratitude.


Passage number 20.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Okay.  We’d be happy to take your questions. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Let’s see if there are any questions, and then we’ll have a quick go-round.  Any questions.  [No response]  I do not see any questions, so let’s take some views.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 21.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I thank Bill for his summary of his earlier memo. As I stressed in my earlier memo to this Committee, I believe the choices that a central bank makes during periods of fiscal strain can have potentially important consequences for longer-term price stability.  As I see them, all of these choices are grounded in three basic elements:  evaluation of Treasury securities when we make purchases or make loans, the acceptability of Treasury securities as collateral, and the haircuts to be applied to Treasury securities when they are offered as collateral. In terms of valuation, the English–Sack memo recommends that we use market prices as much as possible, and I agree with this prescription.  However, I think one thing that we should be careful about is that the prescription needs to be coupled with a quantity restriction on the fraction of defaulted-upon Treasuries that we would hold on our balance sheet.  Otherwise, we could be perceived, correctly or incorrectly, as actually setting the prices of those securities. In terms of acceptability, the memo recommends accepting defaulted-upon Treasuries as collateral.  Now, rating agencies would typically downgrade defaulted-upon securities to D.  In that case, our current collateral guidelines and usual private-sector practices would say that these securities should not be acceptable as collateral.  Now, I have to say that my own view is that, given our employment mandate and the risk to market function, we should deviate from this standard practice and be willing to accept the defaulted-upon securities as collateral, but we need to explain that we’re willing to make such a deviation only because we expect all Treasuries to be paid in full within a short period of time.  Without such an explanation, our willingness to accept D-rated Treasuries could be viewed as a signal of our willingness to monetize the federal debt and so undercut price stability. In terms of haircuts, the memo essentially recommends using our current practices.  I agree with this approach, including the footnote in Chairman Bernanke’s July 28 memo that we will change our haircuts in response to sustained increases in market volatility.  I think we need to be clear to the public about our choices about valuation, acceptability, and haircuts, but I think even more important is that we need to be clear about why we are making these choices.  In particular, our communication should explain why our choices help us achieve our fundamental objectives of maximum employment and price stability as opposed to simply talking about instrumental goals like market function. Let me turn very briefly to the specific options that Brian and Bill offered in their memo.  I’m happy with options 1 to 5.  In terms of options 6 and 7, I believe we should certainly consider these if we think the relevant impairment to market function poses significant risk to employment.  Option 9 involves an expansion of the balance sheet, which I would not favor simply as a way to deal with a debt ceiling issue.  I see option 10 as potentially useful, but with a caveat that we can’t end up holding so many defaulted-upon securities that it appears that we were setting their prices.  I’ve been speaking as if this is a situation we are actually going to be dealing with, and of course, right now it looks like it will be only a hypothetical, which I’m thankful about. Let me close with one final comment about communication if we do have this kind of event happen in the next day or two or in the future sometime.  I think communication will be critical, and I would very much hope the Chairman would be able to give a press briefing about the policies that we’re using and communicate why we’re using these policies.  I think the issues are subtle and the choices do matter, but I don’t think we would be able to achieve the right level of communication without the Chairman’s personal touch.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is mainly expressing agreement and support for certain recommendations and ideas.


Passage number 22.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m pretty comfortable with the suggested approach of the treatment of government securities in Bill and Brian’s memo. In terms of President Kocherlakota’s comment on defaulted securities, discussion with asset managers in Boston seemed to indicate that there’s really no prohibition on holding defaulted government securities by most asset managers, and I think we should have the same policy.  I don’t think it’s at variance with private-market practice; I think, in fact, it’s actually consistent with private-market practice. In terms of market functioning, when temporary political dysfunctions result in a tightening of policies that affect other private-market participants, I think that is undesirable. I would just make two other quick comments.  One is that I think it is interesting to see which banks are becoming capital constrained.  Another is that, as we think about SIFI surcharges and the role of some of our clearing banks, getting a better understanding of what the flow of funds to these organizations is may be useful in thinking about what kind of capital standards we might want to set for these institutions. In terms of the role of money market funds, I think our concern right now highlights the need to be sure that we move toward getting a more stable regulatory environment for money market funds more generally.  It’s been a couple of years since the crisis.  The SEC has been moving at a rather leisurely pace, and rather than coming up with alternative ways to deal with the money market fund problem here, I think we should be continuing to apply pressure to try to get a more stable solution, because I think right now we’re in a situation where problems in the money market funds, problems with our own political dysfunction, and problems in Europe have at least the potential to triangulate in a way that is very, very undesirable.  While it looks like some of the issues with the debt ceiling are going to be resolved relatively quickly, I think it does highlight that money market fund disruptions have broader impacts because of the assets they’ve been holding.  This is occurring in an environment where they’re already very rapidly reducing their holdings of European credits, and I think, depending on what we did, we could’ve potentially seriously exacerbated what’s happening in Europe, and I think we want to avoid that.  So in terms of the money market funds, I’d rather be talking about a longer-run solution and less about short-term facilities.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement of the speaker's opinion and suggestions.


Passage number 23.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I view all 10 proposed actions as being entirely consistent with the Federal Reserve’s role of lender of last resort in response to market dysfunction resulting from a failure to raise the debt ceiling. In particular, I view actions 1 through 5 as consistent with our past practice and good policy.  Indeed, in such circumstances, communication of this “business as usual” approach, as in the draft statement, would send an important message that might reduce uncertainty and help calm markets.  In principle, I would also support actions 6 through 10 in the event these market segments showed signs of serious impairment.  Indeed, it would be useful for us to begin discussions regarding the appropriate thresholds for taking these actions.  Specifically, under what conditions would we implement action 7, “RPs to Address Pressures in the Treasury Repo Market”.  My question is, would it depend on signs of spillovers from the repo market to other markets, such as commercial paper, or obvious signs of a drying-up of liquidity in the repo market. I think it’s very important—and I’m going to echo here some comments by President Kocherlakota—that we clearly distinguish in our public communications between these lender-of-last-resort policies aimed at providing liquidity and monetary policy aimed directly at macroeconomic conditions.  To sharpen this distinction, I prefer action 10 over action 9—that is, purchases of defaulted securities should be matched with sales of otherwise similar nondefaulted securities so that these actions are neutral with respect to our balance sheet, and we should explain clearly that the enactment of any of these programs will not interfere with our pursuit of our mandated goals of price stability and maximum employment.  That is, even if we see a large increase in our balance sheet through these programs, we have the tools to add or remove monetary accommodation as needed. Finally, by transacting Treasury securities at market prices, I think that will protect us from the charge that we’re propping up the fiscal authority through our actions.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you very much.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Williams, is expressing his support for all 10 proposed actions and discussing the importance of clear communication and distinguishing between lender-of-last-resort policies and monetary policy.


Passage number 24.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Much of what I would say has already been said.  I think that the staff has laid this out well.  Actions 1 through 5 are recommended, and I think they’re routine.  I take actions 6, 7, and 8 as sort of contingently recommended, and I agree with that.  Action 8 is very similar to the AMLF that we did in 2008, so there’s a precedent for that.  And as I understood the memo, actions 9 and 10 are laid out as possibilities but not with an absolutely clear recommendation.  Action 10, if I understand it correctly, is similar to action 3 with the requirement of appropriate pricing.  So I think those are to be considered, but I don’t have strong feelings at this point on those.  Those are my thoughts.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker agrees with the recommended actions but expresses a lack of strong feelings on actions 9 and 10.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 25.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll try to be brief.  My comments generally fall along the lines of President Kocherlakota’s.  I’m fairly comfortable with items 1 through 5.  I think they are standard practice as long as we’re using market prices for those operations.  That seems mostly straightforward, as far as I’m concerned. I think where it gets a little more difficult is in items 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10.  In each of those cases, there’s this presumption that the market is not functioning and needs fixing in some sense, and I think that’s where we’re getting into a little more difficult territory.  I agree with President Williams that parts of this are about liquidity, being a lender of last resort, but I think that because it’s the Treasury, it is particularly muddled and dangerous territory to be treading.  We have faced negative repo rates before.  I’m thinking of item 6 here, and questioning what we mean by market functioning.  In some of these areas that involve more policy choices or changes in our policy, I’d like the Desk to be a little more explicit about what they mean by market functioning and to what extent it needs repairing in some sense.  That is, do we know what the right prices might need to be for some of these items.  I think that items 6 and 7 I can live with, but we need to be very careful. I’m particularly troubled by item 8.  I think you have two types of money market mutual funds, including ones that may be a mixture of various types of assets.  If those money market mutual funds have trouble with Treasuries and liquidity, they can always sell other types of assets.  They don’t need to sell their Treasuries, so I think that that’s not a problem.  But for those money market mutual funds that are all Treasuries, it may run the risk of net asset value challenges.  That’s a different sort of problem, and we may have to address that in different ways.  But I’m very cautious and skeptical of item 8 because I don’t know how we’re going to tell.  We don’t have the authority without 13(3), and we would have the difficulty of creating moral hazard problems.  So I’m deeply worried about that. I am very uncomfortable with item 9.  That is basically accommodating—and I think it would be seen as accommodating—financing the public debt.  That’s an FOMC decision and not a Desk decision.  So I think we should be very careful, and I would oppose that, unless the FOMC decided to go forward with such an operation. Item 10 is a sterilized version of item 9.  While I’m more comfortable with that than item 9, it does strike me that the reason for going to engage in some kind of swap would be if the prices weren’t set on defaulted securities or we thought the prices were wrong.  That strikes me as us engaging in actively managing the prices of defaulted securities relative to nondefaulted securities, and I think that could be problematic. So with those caveats, those are my views.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Scott can correct me, but just to make sure I understand, on 13(3), we’ve lost the ability to lend to an individual firm, but we do have the ability to set up a program that is open to a broad range of borrowers.  So in principle—I’m not advocating anything, I’m just saying as a matter of law—we could set up an emergency facility for all money market mutual funds.  Is that right, Scott.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses agreement with some aspects of the discussed items (1-5, 6, 7), but expresses concern and opposition to items 8, 9, and 10. The speaker is particularly uncomfortable with item 9 and opposes it, stating that it should be a decision made by the FOMC rather than the Desk. The speaker also raises concerns about the potential for moral hazard and the active management of prices in item 10.


Passage number 26.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  That’s right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes—just for your information.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 27.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes, I understand that.  I like President Rosengren’s suggestion that what we really need to be doing is thinking more carefully about money market mutual funds in general.  But I would be careful about going down that road under the current circumstances. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, expresses agreement and support for President Rosengren’s suggestion while also expressing caution about implementing it under current circumstances. There is no contention or disagreement present in this passage.


Passage number 28.
 MR. ROSKOM.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I would echo a couple of comments already made in some brief remarks.  First, items 1 through 5, as noted, are fine.  They seem like, as others have commented, very practical ways forward. I’d like to make a comment just briefly about item number 8.  Well, indeed, we do have history establishing such a liquidity facility for money market funds.  It would seem that we should have a quite high threshold before we would think about enacting another program under section 13(3).  We do know how it functions.  We could stand it up quite quickly, but as President Plosser and others have noted, there are two broad categories of money market funds, those that are Treasury-only and others that hold more generalized instruments.  It would be quite helpful, it would seem, if we were going to go down that path, to be seeing an advent of stress broadly in the money market fund space as opposed to just in Treasury-only funds.  In that regard, it would seem like, if that were eventuating, that would be particularly helpful if the Treasury were witnessing and were commenting on issues that concern them about Treasury-only money market funds and at the same time we had a similarly rising sense of angst from a systemic point of view about money market funds more broadly. The last comment I would make is to echo a point made by President Kocherlakota, especially in items 6 through 10 but elsewhere in the memo as well.  It would be helpful, it would seem, to consider a scale limit and to what extent our participation in taking on board defaulted securities for our own account would start to cast a hue that would be other than just normal market function and could communicate in fairly subtle ways—perhaps more subtle ways—our intent to have an effect other than to help with the easy function of markets and the diminishing of systemic risk.  Thank you very much. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of a series of statements and comments that are generally agreeing with the previous speakers and offering additional perspectives.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 29.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks to everyone who contributed memos to this discussion.  I found each of them to be quite useful. Regarding the potential policy responses discussed by Bill and Brian in their memo, I do not have any concerns about actions 1 through 5.  I continue to support the current authorization.  As long as our actions with regard to defaulted securities incorporate current market pricing and appropriate haircuts, these policies can be consistent with sound monetary policy. I am a little nervous about actions 6 and 7.  I think we have to be very careful in describing why we would be undertaking these actions.  For example, action 6 would essentially have us, as I refer to it, “lease” our SOMA Treasuries in order to alleviate negative T-bill or repo rates.  I think it’s vitally important that this not be confused with a shift in monetary policy that looks like the beginning of an exit strategy.  After all, that is one of the options.  Similarly, action 7 would have us increase liquidity in a way that some might confuse with QE3, if we were to do something like that.  I think the key point I’m making is a simple one:  Although these actions might be appropriate, we would need to be exceptionally clear in our communications.  It sounds obvious, but it’s natural to have trouble with that.  Also, because these actions would be to support market functioning beyond our normal federal funds policy instrument, I’m nervous that these actions might be perceived erroneously as another market bailout for privileged institutions.  To undertake these actions, I would hope that substantial communications would convey the FOMC’s belief that these actions are vitally important to continue meeting our dual-mandate responsibilities. Regarding action 8, support for money market funds, I think the hurdle for this action should be quite high also.  I agree with President Rosengren’s comments that we should study this industry very carefully and think about the right way to respond.  Invoking 13(3) authority shines the spotlight ever brighter on our nonstandard policy actions.  I am nervous about the invocation of “inappropriate prices,” which the memo indicated.  I do think this is a cleaner issue for Treasuries than at any other time we’ve responded recently with regard to other programs.  So maybe it’s workable, but it is a little nerve racking.  Again, I think the hurdle for this should be a judgment that our standard monetary policy responsibilities for employment and price stability justify this. I think actions 9 and 10 also seem like a bit of a stretch.  Without more discussion, expanding our balance sheet would, again, perhaps look like QE3.  I’m not saying I’m opposed to that, and I’m not saying I favor it; I just think it requires discussion.  CUSIP swaps may be ingenious, and we are uniquely positioned to bear those risks as the central bank, but it could look like we’re too intimately involved in funding the Treasury in that situation.  So that makes me a little nervous.  It might be okay, but we ought to discuss that. Finally, I think in general, we need to have many more discussions to understand the myriad implications from actions like these.  We know our monetary responsibilities with regard to the dual mandate, but we don’t have the same type of agreement with regard to financial stability, especially when there are conflicts with that.  So I hope that we don’t have to take these actions as quickly as was contemplated by this memo and that we have the time to think about them more carefully.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Mr. Evans, expresses concerns and nervousness about certain policy actions discussed in the memo. He is particularly cautious about actions 6 and 7, and also expresses reservations about actions 8, 9, and 10. He emphasizes the need for clear communication and thorough discussion before implementing these actions. He also raises doubts about the implications and potential conflicts with the dual mandate and financial stability.


Passage number 30.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My remarks are fairly general.  I agree with President Kocherlakota’s memo that a time of government default is a time when price stability is at acute risk.  Any indication that the central bank may be willing to mitigate the situation through debt monetization could ignite inflation expectations and lead to a catastrophic outcome.  Inflation expectations could be explosive in such a situation, and the crisis could be made quite a bit worse than it would otherwise be.  In effect, the explicit default by the Treasury and the U.S. government could be exacerbated by the threat of further implicit default through higher-than-expected inflation.  This could send yields to very high levels and create a very difficult situation, with some similarities to some of the countries in the European periphery. Given this scenario, I think we would have to be extraordinarily cautious in taking any actions that could be interpreted as debt monetization.  The crisis environment would likely be one where any move by this Committee or the Desk would be scrutinized very closely.  The past several years have shown how powerful the expectations effect can be in a crisis situation.  I think options 9 and 10 would probably feed such expectations and, therefore, that the Committee should probably stay away from these policy actions in the event of a crisis of this type. More generally, I think the tone of the English–Sack memo assumes more orderly market functioning than might actually occur in a crisis with defaulted U.S. Treasury securities.  I could imagine little or no market for defaulted securities.  Even if that might seem like an extreme market response, the securities might become toxic.  We certainly saw examples of this in the last go-round in 2008 and 2009.  The lack of a clear price might make many of the procedures outlined in the memo somewhat problematic, as most of the discussion assumes that a clear market price exists. Be that as it may, it now appears that the U.S. Treasury has ultimately decided to prioritize principal and interest payments even in the event of a binding debt ceiling.  This would presumably eliminate the need to plan for a state of affairs in which defaulted securities are trading—or not—in the market.  However, one caveat to that is that that could change in an actual crisis situation.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you, President Bullard.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their agreement with President Kocherlakota's memo and sharing their concerns about the risks of debt monetization and potential inflation in a time of government default. They also discuss the possible lack of a market for defaulted securities and the need for caution in policy actions during a crisis.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 31.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I went away and came back, and I am delighted to see that, maybe for the first time despite our close personal friendship, I’m probably more in agreement with President Evans than I’ve ever been before.  I don’t know if it’s a time warp of having been to Italy or a time warp of being in an almost dysfunctional place like the United States, but anyway, I don’t disagree with most of what President Evans said. As to the first five points, I have no problem there, with the slight caveat that under dire circumstances I would worry that we might be a price determiner, and I’m not fully comfortable with the assumption that competition among primary dealers would help ensure that the prices the Desk accepts are the market values.  So that’s a minor concern, depending on how dire the circumstance becomes. With regard to proposals 6 through 10, again, I’m on Charlie’s wavelength there.  So much depends in proposal number 6 on the definition of “broader market functioning.”  President Plosser made the point that we need some clarification here.  I think that’s very important.  But it seems to me that proposal number 6 would be sensible if, indeed, there was market disruption, once we have that well defined.  As far as proposal number 7 is concerned, I don’t have significant problems with that.  Neither of those—6 or 7—has issues on which I am immovable.  On proposal number 8, I think Eric, as usual, has given wise counsel.  We need to have a longer-term solution for money market funds.  I do think invoking 13(3), whether it be under the current circumstance where we have to do it industry-wide or before where we did it for individual firms, can create political pushback.  I would say that it might be acceptable if we had a serious and dire liquidity situation.  There is a difference between that and solvency issues.  When we had a discussion about those money market mutual funds that were in dire straits due to the circumstance in Europe, we found that there were some small firms in particular that might be a tripwire for concerns in the marketplace.  I think we have to be extremely careful how we navigate our way through the difference between liquidity, market dysfunction, and just bad management and bad structure on the part of the money market mutual funds.  With regard to points 9 and 10, again, Bill and Brian made it clear that these were unlikely outcomes.  I would be personally firmly against either one of them.  To me it would be basically political dynamite.  It would be QE3 in defaulted securities.  Charlie made the carefully crafted statement that “item 10 is a sterilized version of item 9,” and in summary, I would view both as political dynamite, and if not political dynamite, certainly political black powder.  It’s not an avenue I would wish to go down. Finally, Mr. Chairman, going back to President Kocherlakota, who wrote a superb memo at the very beginning of this exercise in response to the first memo sent out by Bill and by Brian, I think your personal touch here in what we communicate at the right point is very important.  At some point I want to have a discussion, and I hope you’ll tolerate that discussion among the principals of the FOMC, as to what you say in Jackson Hole because the last time we spoke in Jackson Hole, we set in train a policy process that had not yet been fully cleared and worked through with the entire Committee.  I think there’s going to be an extraordinary amount of attention under the current circumstances and particularly given that, under the proposals we’ve heard that Linda so adequately summarized, we really haven’t solved much of the problems other than a temporary relief on the debt ceiling and a pushout of the possible date for default.  I would like to make a mental note here and a request for you to consider that we very carefully think through what might be said because, again, you’re our leader, and your personal touch here is critical. Finally, I’d like to thank Bill and Brian for the memo and thank Bill personally for calling me abroad and walking me through this in the most thoughtful way.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  First Vice President George. MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll be brief, given the comments that have preceded.  We would support policy options 1 through 5, as others have noted, and agree that 6 through 10 create higher hurdles, particularly number 9.  In that regard, as others have noted, we should most clearly distinguish between a lender-of-last-resort issue versus a policy action in support of fiscal issues.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker agrees with most of what President Evans said, but does have some concerns with proposal number 6 and proposal number 8.


Passage number 32.
 MR. SACK.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement indicated in the passage. The response "Yes" is a straightforward acknowledgement or confirmation of being addressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 33.
 MR. SACK.  Could I return to item 7 for a moment.  Many of the items that were considered today were considered in the context of contingency planning, if markets were to become disrupted or go down certain paths.  But the perspective on item 7 that you raised, and that Governor Duke raised, was perhaps that RPs should be done in response to firmness in the repo rate simply for managing financial conditions.  The issue of whether the Committee is comfortable allowing some short-term interest rates to increase sharply even if its federal funds rate target is still being met—that, I think, is a more immediate issue, in the sense that we are seeing firmness in the repo market today.  If there were a concern that allowing the repo rate to be elevated was detrimental to the economic mandates of the Committee, then that seems to me to be a more immediate issue.  Now, of course, there’s a decision about whether the Committee wants to look at a constellation of broader rates in gauging the stance of its policy.  And even if the answer were yes, I guess there is an issue about whether you think this firmness in the repo rate is going to persist.  You could argue for not pulling the trigger immediately in order to see if markets calm down and the repo rates return back into the range of 0 to 25.  I guess I was curious if the Committee has decided that it isn’t concerned about repo rates, if it has decided that it is concerned about elevated repo rates but wants to allow more time to see if they come back down, or if it wants to go ahead and lean toward some kind of an action in that direction. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman Dudley.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker is raising different viewpoints on whether the Committee should take action in response to firmness in the repo market or wait and see if the market calms down.


