Passage number 1.
  Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on  September 22–23, 2009  September 22—Afternoon Session  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Good afternoon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The phrase "Good afternoon" is a greeting and does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 2.
 MR. KOHN. Mr.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough context provided to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 3.
 Chairman? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The passage contains disagreement because it presents contradicting perspectives or arguments.


Passage number 4.
 MR. KOHN.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 5.
 May I interrupt? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Please.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is no passage provided to determine if there is contention or disagreement. Please provide the passage for analysis.


Passage number 6.
 MR. KOHN. I’d like to congratulate you on your reappointment.  I think you’ve provided critical leadership to the Committee through these past, sometimes difficult, years.  I’m glad the President recognized that you are the best person for the future, and I’m sure the Senate will agree very shortly, so congratulations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing congratulations and positive thoughts towards the person being reappointed.


Passage number 7.
  [Applause] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. And many thanks to the Committee for the collegial work and discussions we’ve had through a very difficult period.  I appreciate how much we’ve all pulled together and dealt with some of these enormous problems. I need a motion to close the Board meeting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses appreciation and gratitude towards the committee for their work and discussions during a difficult period. The speaker also acknowledges the collective effort in dealing with significant problems. The request for a motion to close the board meeting does not indicate contention.


Passage number 8.
 MR. KOHN. So moved.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "So moved" is an expression indicating agreement or approval without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 9.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Let me first welcome Jim Lyon to the table.  Jim will be sitting in Gary Stern’s spot.  Gary retired, as you know, two weeks ago, and we will have a luncheon tomorrow after the meeting to honor Gary. The first item on the agenda is financial developments, open market operations, and System credit facilities.  We’ll start with a briefing from the Desk by Brian Sack.  We’ll have a Q&A after that, and then we’ll follow that with some additional staff briefings.  Brian?    1 The materials used by Mr. Sack are appended to this transcript (appendix 1).
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage simply provides information about Jim Lyon sitting in Gary Stern's spot and the agenda for the meeting.


Passage number 10.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much.  Questions for Brian?  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage contains a simple expression of gratitude and a request for questions directed at Brian or Governor Tarullo.


Passage number 11.
  MR. TARULLO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Brian, as you were discussing panels 27 and 28, you made reference to some lasting changes in some of the credit markets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is thanking the Chairman and acknowledging Brian's discussion about panels 27 and 28 without suggesting any disagreement or argument.


Passage number 12.
  Can you specify a bit which you expect to be lasting and which you expect to continue to improve? MR. SACK. I can. There’s a lot of focus on the LIBOR–OIS spread, which seems to give the impression that the market has completely returned to previous practices.  I wanted to   present some evidence suggesting that that’s not the case, but rather that the market does look different today from the way it looked several years ago.  In particular, as I said in the remarks, there’s just much more differentiation across types of collateral and, to some degree, across types of borrowers. Those are lasting changes, not only in that they have persisted to today, but also in that we expect them to persist, at least to some degree, indefinitely, as the market moves towards more reasonable pricing and a more reasonable structure going forward.  It makes sense.  There certainly should be a good deal of differentiation across different types of collateral.  For example, some of the collateral listed in this chart is riskier—it’s harder to put a price on it, so you don’t know the value of the collateral, so, certainly, the idea that the market would require a haircut for that kind of collateral seems reasonable.  That was the point. We see those changes as likely to persist, to some degree at least, going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not include any areas of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 13.
 MR. TARULLO.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no clear indication of contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 14.
 They’re not so much structural changes, though—you’re anticipating that, as things continue to normalize, there won’t be some sort of a reversion to the way things were before the crisis? MR. SACK. Correct. But I think there’s a possibility that we’ll see structural changes as well. For example, a working group has been formed to look at the triparty repo market and some of the credit issues that arose in that market during the crisis. In the end, depending on what the solutions are, structural change could also affect pricing in these markets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It simply states the possibility of structural changes in the market and how they could affect pricing.


Passage number 15.
 MR. TARULLO. Okay. Thanks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage only states gratitude or appreciation for the previous statement or assistance. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 16.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement in the passage without the specific passage or context.


Passage number 17.
 MR. EVANS. Brian, my question is just out of curiosity about something I’ve heard you say a couple of times.  Why do dealers have different opinions on the Fed’s likely follow-through on our purchases of agency MBS versus the agency debt?  I have read  commentaries and we’ve taken questions on whether or not we’ll follow through on MBS, but I haven’t heard the same about the agency debt.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply questioning why dealers have different opinions on the Federal Reserve's actions regarding agency MBS and agency debt.


Passage number 18.
   MR. SACK. I think there’s less conviction that we’ll follow through to the full limit on the agencies, and that’s primarily because there’s a recognition by market participants that the pace of purchases is causing some strain in the market.  And it’s also because the pace of purchases is not sufficient to get us to the $200 billion limit by the end of the year.  You can see that in chart 22—we’d need a pretty sharp increase in the pace of purchases to get to the mandated total.  So I think the inference that investors have drawn is that the Committee is less committed to getting to that total on the agency debt side than it is on the MBS side.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating their opinion that there is less conviction in following through on the agencies' full limit due to market strain and insufficient pace of purchases. They also mention that investors have inferred this.


Passage number 19.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. However, it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage without further information. The provided fragment only includes a person's name.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 20.
 MR. HOENIG. I’d like to follow up on that, Brian, and anticipate, perhaps, a bit of tomorrow’s discussion.  Looking at these spreads and where the market is heading, what is the likely reaction to our saying that, instead of going to $1¼ trillion we are going to $1 trillion for the MBS purchases, and we’re going to taper it so we end this at the end of the year, anticipating that the economy is recovering and therefore we have to begin to think about our exit strategy.  I know a bit of uncertainty about this may be out there, and I’d like to get your sense of how much turmoil was circulating around that possibility and what the effect would be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there may be contention or disagreement in the given passage. The speaker mentions a potential change in the MBS purchases, tapering, and the anticipation of an exit strategy. This change in strategy could potentially lead to uncertainty and turmoil, implying that there may be differing views or preferences among individuals.


Passage number 21.
 MR. SACK. At this point, I think that outcome would likely prompt some backup in MBS rates. It’s difficult to gauge the magnitude of that increase, but it wouldn’t be surprising if it were on the order of, say, 15 to 30 basis points, something like that.  In the past, the staff has looked at a variety of evidence and used rules of thumb suggesting that something like $100 billion of a surprise—in any purchase program—could be worth something like 6 to 10 basis points on ten-year yields. So that estimate would be consistent with those metrics.  I   think it’s important to realize that market participants see a sizable effect today.  They seem to have a pretty strong conviction that the program will go all the way to $1.25 trillion.  So those two things mean that that announcement would be a surprise.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 22.
 MR. HOENIG. Given those basis points, and given the fact that you would have, then, time following that, are we talking about a bad thing, necessarily, given where the market is and that we’re in the process of shifting away from our having such a dominant role?  In other words, do you think that the action would be disruptive to the economy more broadly in terms of its effect on the market?  Now, if it lasted, that would be one thing, but if it were temporary, that would be another thing, given that the market may begin to work again.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is posing hypothetical questions and seeking clarification or opinion on the potential effects of a certain action on the market and economy.


Passage number 23.
 MR. SACK. I think it wouldn’t necessarily be disruptive to the market, at least in any sustained sense. Obviously, it would be a surprise upon announcement.  There would be some adjustment, but presumably the market would reprice and begin to function just fine.  I think the broader question of whether it’s a good thing is an issue for the FOMC.  It would mean a higher cost of housing and, obviously, the associated effects on the strength of the economy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is stating an opinion about the potential impact of a certain scenario on the market and the broader question being an issue for the FOMC. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 24.
 MR. HOENIG. Fair enough. Thank you very much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage demonstrates gratitude and agreement, so there is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 25.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the term "Vice Chairman" itself. It is a neutral title that denotes a position or role within an organization.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 26.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I just want to amplify on Brian’s answer.  First, I think the effect would be 15 to 30 basis points at a minimum, because by the end of this week we’re going to have done about $895 billion of agency MBS purchases. So to cap it at a trillion means you are only doing $105 billion as opposed to $355 billion.  So it’s a pretty sizable discrete difference. Second, the market would take it as an independent signal about how concerned or unconcerned the Fed was with the economic outlook.  They probably would also pull forward the timing of Fed tightening.  So there’d probably be a separate channel in terms of the effects on   yields. I think Brian’s 15 to 30 basis points is conservative, if you add those two effects together.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. The speaker states that they think Brian's estimate of 15 to 30 basis points is too low, and provides two reasons for their belief. They believe the effect would be a minimum of 15 to 30 basis points at a minimum.


Passage number 27.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is not stating any claims or presenting any arguments. It is not expressing disagreement or controversy.


Passage number 28.
  How does that match up?  The dealers thought—what was it, about 50 or 60 basis points from the end of the program? MR. SACK. They see the effect today as 60 basis points.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply stating a fact - "They see the effect today as 60 basis points." There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 29.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. You’re pretty close to ending it if you only have $105 billion to go.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 30.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The word "Okay" does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply an affirmative response or an acknowledgement.


Passage number 31.
 MR. LACKER. Mr.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage as it is not providing any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 32.
 Chairman? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the following passage. This is because the passage only presents the title or position of someone ("President Lacker") without providing any context or information that would suggest contention or disagreement.


Passage number 33.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 34.
 Are you talking about spreads or yields? And how would it affect the Treasury market? MR. SACK. I was talking about yields. The dealer survey question is about yields.  It’s true that we look at spreads, as indicated in the chart in the briefing.  We look at spreads as a useful measure to look for those effects, but I think ultimately we care about the effects on yields. So we were careful to phrase the dealer question to be about yields and not spreads.  I think you would assume some of that effect passes through to Treasuries, but, obviously, not one for one.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply discussing the topic of yields and how they are measured and considers the impact on Treasuries.


Passage number 35.
 MR. LACKER. But wouldn’t the Treasury view this as the Treasury market—damp the effect on yields, right?  I mean, if the spreads don’t move as much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is questioning whether the Treasury would view something in a certain way and presents a possible outcome. However, it does not express any opposing opinions or conflicting ideas.


Passage number 36.
 MR. SACK. We’re talking about an effect on MBS yields.  So whether it’s 15 to 30 basis points or up to 60 basis points, we’re talking about the effect on MBS rates.  I would expect some portion of that to pass through to Treasury yields and to yields more broadly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing the potential impact on MBS yields and how it may affect Treasury yields and yields more broadly.


Passage number 37.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Other questions?  Let me just recognize you, President Bullard. But let’s not get completely into the debate at this point.  [Laughter] We’re still in Q&A mode.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a casual remark made by the speaker to the President Bullard.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 38.
  President Bullard? MR. BULLARD. I just want to understand exhibit 4 and number 19, the MBS option-adjusted spread. You cited this figure as evidence that there was an effect on the purchase program, and I just want to understand how we should think of this.  If you look at the left part of the graph—from August 2000 to August 2003—that would be a period of recession and very slow economic growth following the recession, and the spread fell maybe 80 basis points, just eyeballing it. In the current episode, you’ve got a much more severe recession, and the spread fell maybe 100 basis points.  There was no asset-purchase program in the earlier period, and, if we control for recession effects, maybe there wouldn’t be very big effects from the asset-purchase program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is questioning the attribution of the decrease in the MBS option-adjusted spread to the asset-purchase program. They argue that there were similar decreases in the spread in a previous period without the asset-purchase program, and suggest controlling for the effects of the recession to determine the true impact of the program.


Passage number 39.
 Or do we not want to interpret it that way? MR. SACK. When we modeled MBS spreads—and we’ve used a variety of models— some of them included other credit spreads.  There does seem to be some co-movement between MBS spreads and other credit spreads.  I think that was probably the case in that earlier period, and, obviously, we see this pattern of widening into the crisis and then improving in other markets as well.  I think the difference is that the improvement in the MBS spread has been so sharp and has corresponded so strongly with the purchase programs that we don’t think this narrowing just reflects some improvement in credit and some cyclical effect.  We think it goes well beyond that. Having said that, I would like to say it is hard to determine how far beyond some sustainable level the spreads are.  Here, I’m showing a measure relative to Treasuries.  This spread is negative. That looks anomalous by historical standards, so you could look at this chart  and eyeball it and say, “Well, maybe the spread is 50 basis points below what’s sustainable.”  But if we measure it relative to swap rates, it doesn’t look quite as extreme.  I would say relative to swap rates it looks like MBS are maybe 25 basis points beyond fundamentals. Our general conclusion is that we believe the purchases have had a very large effect on the spreads. Starting from a disrupted market, I think it’s very fair to conclude that the purchases have collapsed those spreads more than 100 basis points.  The harder question is: Have they collapsed them to normal or through normal, and, if through normal, how far?  Based on the range of models we’re estimating trying to answer this question, something like 25 to 50 basis points looks like a reasonable guess.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is providing an analysis of MBS spreads and discussing the effects of purchase programs on those spreads. The speaker acknowledges the difficulty of determining sustainable levels of spreads but offers a range of estimates.


Passage number 40.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 41.
 A two-hander, President Lacker? MR. LACKER. No, it was a one-hander, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement providing information about the topic at hand without any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 42.
  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. One-hander, okay. [Laughter] We’ll go one-hander to President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply mentions a statement about going one-hander to President Fisher, followed by laughter. There is no indication of any opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 43.
 MR. FISHER. Well, if you want to continue on the mortgage-backed securities, mine is on another subject, so perhaps President Lacker would like to go.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention among the parties involved. It simply suggests that the speaker has a different subject to discuss, allowing President Lacker to continue discussing mortgage-backed securities.


Passage number 44.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m sorry.  Okay. President Plosser, yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The words "I'm sorry" and "Okay" indicate acknowledgment or agreement, while "President Plosser, yes" suggests agreement or consent as well.


Passage number 45.
 MR. PLOSSER. Two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is not contention or disagreement in the phrase "Two-hander" as it does not convey any conflicting or opposing ideas. It is a term typically used in theater or film to describe a play or movie that involves only two characters.


Passage number 46.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Two-hander, okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The phrase "Two-hander, okay" does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It is a simple statement, possibly implying a question or confirmation about a two-handed activity.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 47.
 MR. PLOSSER. I’d like to go back to this estimate of the effects of cutting back purchases from $1¼ trillion to $1 trillion. I’m looking at exhibit 4, chart 20.  The effect on yields is somewhere—let’s just take a modal number—between 50 and 75 basis points.  I thought the argument had been that it is the stock that matters, not flow so much.  If we cut from $1¼ trillion to $1 trillion, that’s one-fifth of the total stock.  If you do a back-of-the-envelope calculation—divide 75 basis points by five—that would suggest somewhere between 10 and 15 basis points, not somewhere between 25 and 50 basis points.  So I’m not quite sure I understand the argument that by cutting the program by one-fifth we’re going to take away as much as half or three-quarters of the basis point cut that the dealers seem to think there has been.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker questions the argument that cutting purchases from $1¼ trillion to $1 trillion would have a significant impact on yields. They argue that based on simple calculations, the impact should be lower than what the dealers believe, suggesting a discrepancy in their understanding of the situation.


Passage number 48.
 Could you clarify that for me? MR. SACK. Well, there is a range of interpretations.  Let’s say we assume half the effect comes through stock, and half the effect comes through flow.  In this case, if the total effect is 50 to 75 that means, say, we have 35 and 35.  You’re right about the stock effect not changing dramatically.  The expected stock effect is shifting, but if we take your one-fifth, we’re talking maybe 10 basis points, max.  But, of course, the flow effect is going to diminish as well. When we look at these responses, 50 to 75 basis points, and at how these respondents answered about how the effects would evolve going forward, they essentially almost uniformly assume that the effect would diminish from now to six months after the conclusion of the purchases. So, implicitly, they were putting a lot of weight on flow effects in those responses.  We didn’t push too hard on that because it’s a small number of responses.  We didn’t really dig into it very much and follow up with them on why they had so much reversal.  But I think when we look at the dealer survey as a whole, it suggests that flow effects are a big part of this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different interpretations and assumptions regarding the effects of stock and flow on a certain phenomenon.


Passage number 49.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage doesn't include any conflicting or opposing ideas or arguments.


Passage number 50.
 Would you like to finish? MR. SACK. No, that’s okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The answer is "No" because the passage does not present any conflicting or opposing viewpoints. It simply states that something is okay.


Passage number 51.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough context provided to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage about President Fisher.


Passage number 52.
 MR. FISHER. Mr. Chairman, this is sort of a statement disguised as a question, but I would still like to get your reaction, Brian. It has nothing to do with mortgage-backed securities, which I realize is the focus of a lot of this meeting.  It goes back to your first graph on equity prices. We have had—going back to 1923, 1924—15 recessions before the current one.  According to the data, if my memory serves correctly, from the trough of the equity market as measured by the S&P 500 or its equivalent, to when we emerge from recession, the average rally has been about 22 percent.  Looking at chart 1, if you assume that we exited the recession in July, roughly, we have had the most significant equity market rally in history; this even outperforms 1929 to 1933. I am continually troubled by the issue of top-line versus margin enhancement and bottom-line growth.  I ask this question because I think it is very important.  We make almost a linear assumption in our baseline case of pretty positive equity market numbers going forward, after having had what is, historically speaking, the greatest stock market rally coming out of a recession in history. That is around 48 percent.  Now, from your standpoint as a market operator, or as someone who is more attuned to the markets than certainly I am, and I think the rest of us are, can you continue this process without top-line growth?  I’m just curious as to what your concerns are, if you have them, because, again, the baseline growth model that we have factors in some pretty healthy equity market numbers going forward.  So I’m just curious from a Desk standpoint what your feelings are about this.  And I realize this is guesswork—but still.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and expressing their curiosity about the implications of the current equity market rally. There is no indication of a disagreement or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 53.
 MR. SACK. Well, I think we’ve had a very sharp rally reflecting the size of the revision to the economic outlook and the very substantial shift in the perceived risks around that outlook.  So, yes, it is big by historical standards, but there is a very extreme update to the outlook among market participants.  The question is: Going forward, can you sustain that pace?  The answer is:  Definitely no. Going forward, the equity market gains are going to be governed by changes in earnings revenue and by changes in the valuation or the equity premium that was shown in the chart. On the earnings revenue side, earnings have been good, but a lot of that good news hascome from cost-cutting.  We don’t have a lot of top-line GDP growth, so it will be hard to produce a robust enough earnings environment, given the GDP forecast, for that to be the engine of ongoing substantial equity market gains.  I think a bigger question is the equity premium that I showed in the bottom left panel.  There we have scope for further narrowing, so that could be one source of ongoing gains. But, as you can see, we’ve already narrowed a good amount, so even there we’re kind of losing capacity. But keep in mind that we’re going up very rapidly.  We had a 7 percent gain this intermeeting period, and for a while I was describing that as underperformance relative to the previous intermeeting periods.  So I think, of course, this can level out.  My main point was not that we should expect to sustain these increases, but that these increases have not necessarily set us up for some kind of a reversal, because the increases have not pushed valuations beyond what looked reasonable under some models.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage discusses the size of the rally, the potential for sustainability of market gains, and the factors that could influence future market performance. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 54.
  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage only mentions President Lacker without providing any details or information that could indicate disagreement or contention.


Passage number 55.
 MR. LACKER. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 56.
 When you announce individual auctions that you hold to buy Treasuries or MBS or agency debt, you don’t announce the amount, do you? MR. SACK. That’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage "That's correct." This statement simply affirms the correctness of something without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting ideas presented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 57.
 MR. LACKER. With regard to the total program, we talked about the value of clarity.  I was wondering why you don’t announce the amounts when you do individual auctions, especially if there’s a flow effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.


Passage number 58.
 MR. SACK. We try to retain some flexibility for varying the flow of purchases in response to market conditions and in response to the kinds of offers that we receive.  That’s the main answer.  I think it would be problematic if the market had no sense of what our pace of   purchases was going to be, or what kind of target we were trying to get to.  But they know all of that, so we just afford ourselves some ability to vary over time in response to market conditions. We do exercise discretion in terms of how much to push the markets on any given day, especially in the MBS program and in the agency debt program.  We will have a target for purchasing, currently around $25 billion a week for MBS, but what we actually realize in a given week depends on the market conditions that we see and how much we seem able to buy without causing problems in market functioning.  So the main answer is that we don’t commit to a schedule of purchase amounts, because we want to retain that flexibility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining that they retain flexibility in varying the flow of purchases in response to market conditions.


Passage number 59.
 MR. LACKER. Okay. It sounds like the value of flexibility to you exceeds the value that providing clarity to market participants on that day would provide. I have another question, if I could, Mr. Chairman.  Brian mentioned strains in the agency debt market.  I would be interested in learning a little more about sort of what observationally that looks like.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a neutral exchange of information between two individuals.


Passage number 60.
 MR. SACK. First, let me just clarify one thing.  We don’t announce in advance paths for the size of MBS purchases. When we do Treasury operations, we do announce the size the day before the operation is conducted.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a straightforward explanation clarifying a fact about the announcement of the size of MBS purchases and Treasury operations. There is no indication of any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 61.
 MR. LACKER. For Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage as it is a straightforward statement regarding Treasuries.


Passage number 62.
 MR. SACK. But we don’t pre-commit to the size—that’s what I meant.  In the agency market, a lot of the feedback is anecdotal.  We look at trading volumes, we look at bid–asked spreads, but we also rely a lot on discussions with market participants.  And we see a number of things. For example, for a time we weren’t buying on-the-run issues.  We were only buying off-the-run issues. And what we saw was actually a reverse on-the-run premium develop, in the sense that the on-the-run yields were actually higher than all of the off-the-run yields. So we certainly look at this market and say, “Well, our purchases are really pushing prices a lot. They are taking a lot of the floating supply in the market.”  And we hear back from dealers that they are affecting dealers’ willingness to short issues out of fear that there is not enough floating supply to cover those positions.  So we look at a variety of evidence. This isn’t too controversial. We are very big in that market.  I think in the last briefing I indicated that our purchases were something like ten times the net issuance in the agency sector that we expected over the program.  So we are very big relative to issuance and the size of that market, and it’s quite clear that that’s causing some problems for marketing functioning.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, there is no contention or disagreement. The speaker is explaining their approach to purchasing in the agency market and how it is affecting the market's functioning. They provide anecdotal feedback and evidence to support their point, but there is no conflicting view or argument presented.


Passage number 63.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 64.
 Do you think the market is better off with our intervention?  Do you think we’re accomplishing other things that outweigh the detrimental effect of these strains? MR. SACK. For the Treasury purchases and the MBS purchases, I would say the answer is yes, I think we’ve had a substantial effect on market interest rates.  Assuming your objective was to lower market interest rates and simulate economic activity, I think those programs have been very successful. It’s less clear how the agency debt purchase program has led to those effects. Obviously, there are indirect channels through affecting the agencies’ ability to finance themselves and maybe their purchases of mortgages.  But they’re not expanding their balance sheets, so I would say the benefits of that program are less clear to me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 65.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions for Brian?  (No response.) Okay, seeing none, I’m going to turn to Bill English, who is going to give the first of three briefings on the balance sheet, reserve management, and associated issues, and then we’ll take questions for all three briefings at the same time.  Bill.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 66.
  Internally, the RCA concept has been discussed with the System’s Accounting Management Steering Group (AMSG).
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not present any opposing views or conflicting information.


Passage number 67.
  The AMSG viewed the concept as feasible and similar in some respects to the recent implementation of excess balance accounts.  In addition, members of the Committee on Reserve Administration have reviewed the proposal.  Brian will now continue the staff  presentations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement expressed in this passage. It simply states that members of the Committee on Reserve Administration have reviewed the proposal and now Brian will continue with staff presentations.


Passage number 68.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much.  According to the agenda, the sequence of the meeting goes as follows: First, questions for the staff; there will then be an opportunity for  unstructured interaction on these issues; and then finally, of course, two full go-rounds.  So everyone will have ample opportunity to  express their views on all of these subjects. Let’s begin first with just questions for the staff.  Are there questions?  Vice Chairman Dudley.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply outlines the sequence of the meeting and states that there will be an opportunity for everyone to express their views.


Passage number 69.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I had a question for Jim.  Obviously as we contemplate the agency debt and agency MBS purchase programs, the issues are related to our ability to actually have the sort of “suspenders” in place, in terms of reverse repo or term deposit facilities, to be confident that we can actually do that if we needed to.  The reverse repo instrument, as you described, is a size constraint for the dealers. How confident are you that the reverse repo program  can be successfully introduced to a broader set of counterparties? Highly confident?  Not so confident?  I think the answer to that question is relevant for thinking about our balance sheet size.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not involve contention or disagreement. It is a discussion about the use of reverse repo programs and the confidence in their successful introduction to a broader set of counterparties.


Passage number 70.
 Also, are there potential legal impediments, or is this just an operational issue? MR. CLOUSE. I’ve had a number of conversations with Chris Burke and his colleagues—of course, Brian may want to comment on this as well—and I think that the perception is that it will be a challenge to pull in a lot of additional counterparties.  One obvious lending group would be the money funds. You would like to have them participate—conceivably, even banks that are holding huge volumes of reserves might want to be lenders of cash against securities.  So there are natural sets of institutions that you might want to target, but in order to get them into the system, you have to have legal agreements established with them—that takes some time, I have learned.  And there are also all sorts of operational   difficulties in setting up collateral arrangements and having the monitoring in place.  There’s a perception, at least, that you could get a substantial number of additional counterparties in place by the end of the year, but I think Chris and his colleagues at your Reserve Bank have their work cut out for them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily discusses the challenges and obstacles in pulling in additional counterparties and acknowledges the potential difficulties in establishing legal agreements and operational arrangements.


Passage number 71.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I guess what I’m asking is, over the longer term—you said nine months from now—could you drain a trillion dollars of reserves if you had to?  Are you pretty confident you could do that?  At the end of the day, that’s really the key question. Actually, there are two questions.  One, do you think interest on excess reserves would be sufficient? I do, but I think other people would have some questions about that.  So then the second question is, to guard against the potential risk of that not being sufficient, what are the “suspenders”? Then the issue is: Are you highly confident that you could get the “suspenders” up in operation eventually?  I don’t think year-end is necessarily that relevant, but if you told me that you couldn’t get it up by midyear 2010, I would start to be nervous.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is asking a series of questions for clarification and expressing their thoughts and concerns.


Passage number 72.
 MR. CLOUSE: My own personal view, for what it’s worth, is that the combination of reverse RPs and the term deposits could be very powerful nine months from now.  The term deposit facility, in particular, could drain a huge amount of reserves; obviously, it depends on the rates that we’re willing to offer. As for the reverse RPs, I think we could find a very large amount of lenders there, as well.  So I think the combination of those two programs will put us in pretty good shape.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker simply presents their opinion about the potential effects of the term deposit facility and reverse RPs on the reserves. They express confidence in the combination of these programs to improve the situation.


Passage number 73.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.
Explanation: The passage is not stating any conflicting ideas or presenting an argument. It seems to be a polite message expressing gratitude.


Passage number 74.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There isn't enough information provided in the passage to determine if there is contention or disagreement involving President Rosengren.


Passage number 75.
 MR. ROSENGREN. My question follows along the same lines; again, it’s to Jim.  In thinking about the term deposit facility, could we use the term auction facility apparatus to do the term deposit facility, because one way of thinking about the term deposit is as a reverse discount window loan, right?  We already have an apparatus that has an auction for loans, so if we were going to use an auction format for deposits instead, it would seem like we already have an apparatus to do it, and it would deal with some of the questions about the permanence of the TAF, if it could go either way during times when we wanted either to push out a lot of reserves or pull in a lot of reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is asking a question and proposing a suggestion for using an existing apparatus for a different purpose. The passage simply offers a logical line of thought and does not involve any conflicting opinions.


Passage number 76.
 So, when you’re thinking about the term deposit facility, are you thinking about it as being something like the term auction facility, or is it a very different structure? MR. CLOUSE.  I think one variation on it would be very much like the term auction facility in structure. The Committee could establish amounts that it wished to auction, take bids, and it would be very much like the TAF, just in reverse.  We probably wouldn’t use the existing technology, the program for submitting bids and receiving results and various spreadsheets that have been developed.  It’s not the most sophisticated automation, but Sherry Edwards and company have been working for about a year to develop the code in the Statistics and Reserves system to support an auction and to have all of the entries pass through to reserve accounting and to the Federal Reserve Banks’ accounting systems properly. So I think on that dimension we’re in very good shape for the term deposit program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 77.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Conceptually, that seems much easier than depending on the primary dealer system, if what we wanted to do was pull out a lot of reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It presents an alternative idea without opposing or contradicting any previous statement.


Passage number 78.
 MR. CLOUSE. I don’t like to view them as competing things.  I really view them as kind of complementary, and it could be that both are very useful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses a positive perspective on two things and states that they view them as complementary and useful, suggesting that both can be beneficial.


Passage number 79.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Governor Kohn.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only mentions "Governor Kohn," without any further information or context that would indicate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 80.
 MR. KOHN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have a question for Bill and a related one for Jim, and then a suggestion on the press release. Here’s the question for Bill.  You put a lot of emphasis on downward pressure on short-term funding rates as these reserves came into play.  In the good old days, we used to think of the deposit rate as the floor for market rates, because banks would be willing to arbitrage.  I was wondering, as market conditions improved, bank capital increased, and they got more confident, whether they wouldn’t be willing to do more arbitrage and put upward pressure on short-term rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It simply includes a question and a suggestion.


Passage number 81.
 MR. ENGLISH.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 82.
 Bring them up to 25 basis points? MR. KOHN. Up to whatever the deposit rate is—right.  I think the answer might be—or the problem might be—this leverage ratio.  But I was encouraged by your previous finding that the leverageratio wouldn’t be a problem with the amount of reserves, and I also was encouraged by the response of the banks, namely, that they were putting emphasis on risk-weighted assets rather than on total assets as they thought about their capital ratios.  So I wondered about that counterforce pushing those short-term rates up to the deposit rate. My second point, for Jim, is related to the same thing.  You said that there was a concern about bank capital relative to the reverse RPs, also related to the leverage ratio rather than the risk-weighted assets.  But we did say that the leverage ratio wouldn’t be a constraint for reserves.  So it shouldn’t be—in total, anyhow—a constraint for some other Federal Reserve liability, that is, reverse RPs.  Now, the difference might be that the reverse RPs were being done with a smaller number of counterparties, so all of the pressure would be on 15 of the largest institutions.  But they probably account for a lot of the assets anyhow. So I wondered whether it was a question of distribution, implying that the leverage ratio wasn’t a problem for reserves, but it would be a problem for reverse RPs. My final comment is on the press release.  I don’t think it should be commenting on what forms the TAF might take if it became permanent.  The Committee hasn’t had a chance to discuss it.  Who knows how this is going to come out?  I think it’s all right to say we’ll be looking at it, but not suggest what it could be.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It consists of the speaker expressing their thoughts, asking questions, and making comments, but there is no indication of a disagreement or argument.


Passage number 83.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement in the passage without the context or the specific content of the passage itself.


Passage number 84.
 MR. LACKER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have three questions.  First, for Mr. English, about the four banking organizations responding that they wouldn’t change lending terms.  I assume you’re not shocked they didn’t tell you they would ease credit standards.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a straightforward statement posed as a question.


Passage number 85.
 MR. ENGLISH.  In the last Senior Loan Officer Survey, we asked them when they would move back to more normal standards.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It simply states that in the last Senior Loan Officer Survey, a question was asked about moving back to more normal standards.


Passage number 86.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 87.
  On the lending terms, aren’t a lot of loans priced as a spread over a market rate? MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The passage shows a disagreement or contention because it presents two contrasting viewpoints.


Passage number 88.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage because it does not present any conflicting viewpoints or contradictory statements.


Passage number 89.
  So if they say they weren’t going to change lending terms, would you interpret that to mean they wouldn’t change the spread?MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without the passage being provided, it is impossible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 90.
 MR. LACKER. So it’s sort of like a partial equilibrium response, and if other stuff that went on pushed down rates, it could push down lending terms as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not presenting any conflicting ideas or opinions. It is simply describing a hypothetical scenario.


Passage number 91.
 MR. ENGLISH.  It would push down those base rates.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that pushing down base rates would happen.


Passage number 92.
 MR. LACKER.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The word "right" does not indicate any kind of contention or disagreement. It is a simple statement or affirmation.


Passage number 93.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Though I’m not sure that you’d get a lot of action there, at least on the business side, because one base rate is the prime—I don’t think it’s going to be cut much.  The other is three-month LIBOR—it’s already pretty low.  But I agree conceptually.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their uncertainty about the effectiveness of certain actions, and then agrees conceptually with something.


Passage number 94.
 MR. LACKER.  Right. I have a question for Mr. Clouse on these reserve collateral accounts.  When you think about, sort of, a “medical intervention,” you wouldn’t run around and do that on the basis of a two-month-old working paper; instead, you’d look for peer-reviewed research.  You guys are working hard on implementation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their question and expressing their belief that proper research and review should be done before implementing something.


Passage number 95.
  What are you doing to check the robustness of the theoretical basis for what you’re designing this program around? MR. CLOUSE.  I’m not sure about the theoretical robustness, but I definitely think the staff shares your basic concerns about whether this would really function in the way the theory might suggest.  One of the things that the staff has done is to consult with the GSEs to find out whether their view of it would align properly.  I think it’s also important that we consult with the other side of that transaction, the banks that would be putting these liabilities on their balance sheets, to find out whether they, in fact, would find it attractive, because it really takes both sides of that transaction to make this thing work, and I think it’s really unclear at this stage.  The staff has more work to do to vet this to be more confident that it could be useful.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not show any explicit disagreement or contention. It discusses the need for further consultation and research to determine the viability and usefulness of a particular idea. While there may be differing perspectives and concerns mentioned, there is no direct disagreement or conflict between parties.


Passage number 96.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The passage does not present any conflicting ideas, opinions, or contradicting statements.


Passage number 97.
 Do you have the results of the GSE conversations yet? MR. CLOUSE.  Not yet, no.  They’re actually doing a fairly extensive review.  They’re treating it as a new product, and they’re putting it through a fairly standard process that they would use in analyzing a new product, and they’re going to report those results back to us fairly shortly.  So I hope we’ll learn a good bit from those.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage describes a process of reviewing and analyzing a new product, but there is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 98.
  MR. LACKER. Did you say they’re putting it through their standard new product evaluation?  [Laughter] And finally, a point about term deposits.  You were talking about some features that would make these pretty liquid—they’d be able to pledge them at the discount window and withdraw them without penalty. If you make these things really accessible, then I’m not sure why draining reserves and putting them there would have any effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a simple question and statement, without any conflicting viewpoints.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 99.
  Why would you expect that? Don’t you need some stark, sharp, constraining differences in order for them to have any sort of monetary effect? MR. CLOUSE.  Absolutely.  First of all, just the pure operational dimension of having an early withdrawal option for a term deposit is really very difficult.  But, beyond that, to your point, certainly if there were a withdrawal option, you’d want to have a pretty stiff penalty associated with it, so that it wouldn’t just be relabeling reserves.  It would have to have a fairly clear distinction in order to perform the function that’s intended.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. This passage presents disagreement or contention. The statement acknowledges the difficulties of having an early withdrawal option for a term deposit but disagrees with the idea of allowing it without a significant penalty.


Passage number 100.
 MR. LACKER. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 101.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not include any information about President Plosser's actions or statements that would indicate contention or disagreement.


Passage number 102.
 MR. PLOSSER. I have a couple of questions for Bill and one for Brian.  One is just a factual question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the speaker has some questions for Bill and one question for Brian.


Passage number 103.
 In your first chart where you talked about the projected level of excess reserves, were you including in that the increase in the roughly $200 billion from the end of the SFP program? MR. ENGLISH. I think that’s the first peak.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not express any disagreement or contention. It is a statement of personal opinion.


Passage number 104.
 MR. PLOSSER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not providing any arguments or conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 105.
 Is that the first peak? MR. ENGLISH.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without the passage being provided, it is not possible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement. Please provide the passage for further analysis.


Passage number 106.
 MR. PLOSSER. Okay.  I just wasn’t sure whether it was included.  Second, I was thinking about the story and the analysis that you’ve done.  At the end, you say, well, okay, what if this analysis is wrong?  What would the outcomes be?  My question is how we should think about metrics and variables and things we should be looking at as we go forward during this period of very high reserves to get a handle on which way this story is actually going, because I think there’s a lot of uncertainty about how this might, in fact, play out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a question asking for guidance and advice on how to approach metrics and variables during a period of high reserves. There is no contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 107.
  How would we structure our ongoing analysis of what’s going on out there, so that we would be alert to whether or not the kinds of things that might be the alternative play out?  Are there metrics that we should be looking at?  Are there things that we want to monitor carefully to be able to get a handle on that? MR. ENGLISH.  There are, but I think they’re things we’re already monitoring carefully.  They would be things like the short end of the yield curve. How is it behaving?  If somehow the high level of reserves and reduced demand for reserves is causing some sort of arbitrage into short- and intermediate-term safe assets, you’d expect to see that at the short end of the Treasury yield curve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing potential areas of monitoring and observation.


Passage number 108.
 MR. PLOSSER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is not discussing any opposing viewpoints or conflicting ideas. It is presenting information or a single perspective without any indication of disagreement.


Passage number 109.
 So is that like the decline in short-term Treasuries vis-à-vis the higher reserves that we witnessed recently? MR. ENGLISH.  At least over the intermeeting period, it’s across the whole yield curve.  So I don’t think it matches up with this sort of story, which I’d expect at least would be concentrated at the short end, because those are more substitutable. You’d also want to look at how banks are behaving.  If this story is really going to have legs for the economy, at some point, despite what they told us, banks are going to have to ease some standards and terms on their lending. So, clearly, we’re spending considerable time thinking about the bank lending data and the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey and how we integrate these things into our modeling.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing different factors and considerations that need to be taken into account when analyzing the yield curve and the behavior of banks.


Passage number 110.
 MR. PLOSSER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 111.
 Would things like quantities of loans, quantities of various kinds, as opposed to just prices, become important? MR. ENGLISH.  Over the intermeeting period, as we discussed in the Greenbook, the survey of terms of business lending came in for the most recent quarter and showed another considerable widening of spreads on business loans.  We can look at some information we have on prices in the syndicated loan market and also, as you say, at the quantities.  Our weekly bank credit data may be informative about whether banks are beginning to move.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing various sources of information that can be used to analyze the widening spreads on business loans.


Passage number 112.
 MR. PLOSSER. All right. Thank you. I have a question for Brian on the TAF.  I’ll ’fess up— I’m one of the ones who keeps asking about price as opposed to just quantities, and I’m a little bit confused. Brian, we don’t want penalty rates.  The Committee made a conscious decision a while back,   when we cut the spread between the primary rate and the funds rate, to reduce the penalty rate of being at the discount window.  We did that as a conscious decision.  But for quite a while now, we have been in a situation where people can almost confidently predict that they’re going to get a lower rate if they go to the auction than if they choose to borrow from the discount window directly.  There are borrowers who come to our discount windows who are of a scale and size and scope where the TAF auction isn’t easily available to them in the amounts that they would like to borrow.  So, in fact, we’re taking one group of borrowers who want to go to the discount window, and we’re making them borrow at a penalty rate.  Right now we’re in an environment where—and, de facto, we’ve set this up—if you’re big enough and want to participate in the TAF, you can get money at a cheaper rate. I remain a little bit puzzled about why we want to perpetuate that differential.  They’re both discount window lending.  Why don’t we want to make borrowers from both of these mechanisms more similar?  I understand that if you reduce the quantities enough at an auction, you can raise the price above that minimum, but TAF borrowing is longer term and there are some other restrictions.  So I still remain somewhat puzzled at the reluctance to move the minimum bid closer to the primary credit rate, the rate at which many banks still come and borrow from us.  Maybe I’m being dense here, but the logic is escaping me. I haven’t figured it out yet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is an individual expressing confusion and seeking clarification on a specific topic.


Passage number 113.
  So could you help me out? MR. MADIGAN. Well, I think the basic distinction that we see is the difference between a standing facility and an auction facility.  I’m defining a standing facility as one where the borrowing institution comes to us seeking funds.  We want to provide incentives for that bank or firm to find funds in the open market before they come to us, and so we charge a penalty rate for that, which is consistent with traditional central banking theory.  By contrast, in the TAF and the TSLF, we’re trying, at least conceptually, to place fixed amounts of dollars into the system, that is, make fixed amounts of dollars available to the system and let the market set the price.  If we set any significant penalty, we’d simply be undercutting that attempt to provide the dollars into the market in fixed quantities.  We’d be driving off the borrowers.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. Instead, it is explaining the distinction between a standing facility and an auction facility and the rationale behind the different approaches taken by the central bank.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 114.
  MR. PLOSSER. We have no idea what the quantities are going to be, because it’s underbid every time. So I don’t quite understand.  If we’re not maxing out on the quantities, then we really aren’t setting the quantities. The market is setting the quantities, and it’s setting the quantities based on a low price that we basically are offering.  So I’m having trouble reconciling all of this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates a disagreement or confusion regarding the setting of quantities. The speaker is expressing their inability to understand a situation where quantities are being determined by the market based on a low price, rather than being set by themselves.


Passage number 115.
 MR. MADIGAN. Well, I think it’s fundamentally starting from a view that an auction mechanism simply is not consistent with the penalty price.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is expressing an opinion or belief that an auction mechanism is not consistent with the penalty price. While there may be differing opinions on this matter, the passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 116.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 117.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have two questions.  The first is for Bill and the second one is either for Bill or maybe for Brian Sack.  When you presented the simulation results, I had been conflicted in reading the memo and responding to the fact that the banks were saying, “We’ve got these excess reserves.  We’re really not intending to lend them out.”  You did the simulation—I guess that’s kind of natural to look at the implications of lower short-term rates, and that would presumably be more accommodative.  But I’m wondering if you learn something else from the survey—that there might be added dysfunction in the lending channel if the banks aren’t looking to lend out excess reserves that they currently have available to them.  Did we learn more about their lack of intention to stimulate the economy through more lending, or is it pretty much the way we had thought about it before? And that led me to think about the second question. Earlier in the year, we talked a pretty good amount, I thought, in terms of market segmentation and how effective our various programs would be depending on how clogged up markets were.  Arbitrage kind of disperses funds that we would put into the financial system, but when it’s more segmented, we have a larger effect.  So I guess I’m back to the MBS question. Do you think that that program is more effective in a price sense?  Do we have more segments? I don’t think we have more segmentation.  Do we have less segmentation?  Regarding the rate effects that we might have estimated early on, would they be smaller now because these are more dispersed?  I think that’s what President Lacker was trying to get at with Treasuries, but I’m not exactly sure. And then there’s the next part of this question, which you can answer either today or later.  Do we have an idea of what an estimate of the MBS rates will be when we’re done with the LSAP programs if itwere the full $1¼ trillion tapered at the end of the first quarter, and if we did what President Hoenig suggested, only $1 trillion tapered to the end of the fourth quarter?  What would those rates look like at the end of the first quarter?  I’m not sure I understand the different implications, or at least our thinking on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker is questioning whether the banks' lack of intention to lend out excess reserves will lead to dysfunction in the lending channel. They are also questioning the effectiveness of the MBS program and whether there is more or less market segmentation. Additionally, they are asking for clarification on the implications of different LSAP programs.


Passage number 118.
 MR. ENGLISH. Let me try talking about banks for a second.  I think what we learned from the banks on the whole was consistent with what we thought before, which is that they’re very tight, and we think that they will only gradually ease.  In the staff forecast, that’s basically what we built in—gradually over the forecast horizon, banks loosen up, they get more comfortable taking on risk, they build up some capital, they get more comfortable with their liquidity positions, and they start lending in a more accommodative way.  I think, broadly at least, that’s consistent with what the banks were saying.  They’re not going to be going out any time soon and lending aggressively, and, basically, we didn’t expect to hear that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The author is simply stating their opinion and perspective on the topic of banks.


Passage number 119.
 MR. EVANS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the following passage.


Passage number 120.
  And the interest rate cut in the model analysis already takes into account some impediment from the normal type of lending? MR. ENGLISH. The baseline takes account of it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not mention any form of contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that the baseline considers or includes something.


Passage number 121.
 MR. EVANS.  Okay. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Based on the provided text, there is no contention or disagreement. It is a polite acknowledgement of gratitude.


Passage number 122.
  Do we have an idea about market segmentation? MR. SACK. Our view is that it’s not that the MBS purchases have had an effect and the Treasury purchases just didn’t work.  It’s just that the sizes were disproportionate.  It’s easy to see the MBS effects, because the program was so large relative to that market; it’s harder to see the Treasury effects, because the purchase is supposed to work through supply, but net supply was actually going up quite rapidly. So we may have offset some upward pressure on yields.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is explaining the potential reasons for the differing impacts of MBS purchases and Treasury purchases, without conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 123.
 MR. EVANS.  Well, I was thinking about it differently.  You can do the MBS. You can do the Treasuries. If they’re segmented, they’re different.  If there’s no segmentation, there’s going to be some arbitrage across the different markets, so it almost doesn’t matter where you dump those funds.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents different options and discusses the potential outcomes based on the existence of segmentation or arbitrage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 124.
 MR. SACK. Yes. I think the purchases take duration out of the market regardless.  There are some other differences.  The MBS purchases actually take some negative convexity out of the market,   too, and you don’t have that with Treasuries.  So there are some differences.  But the big effect is all of these purchases pull out duration, and, in that regard, you would think they would have some effect on all longer-term assets, and I think that’s true to a degree. But I think one thing we realize is that there’s not perfect substitution across our asset classes, so when we talk about large-scale MBS purchases, we see the effect most pronounced on MBS rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker acknowledges that there are some differences between MBS and Treasury purchases, specifically regarding negative convexity. However, they also mention that the big effect of these purchases is the removal of duration from the market, which they believe would have some effect on all longer-term assets. This suggests a disagreement or contention regarding the extent of the impact of these purchases on various assets.


Passage number 125.
 MR. EVANS.  But in March we were stymied by the segmentation, I thought.  We thought it was really big, and now things seem different.  So I would guess that the estimated effect would be smaller.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing a personal thought or opinion based on their current understanding or observation.


Passage number 126.
 MR. SACK. Well, I think it means that there are spillovers, but they’re just hard to see.  If we talk about the effect of the MBS purchases and we look at the spread and say, “Well, maybe it looks like the spread is 50 basis points,” so the effect on the spread is 50 basis points.  I think it means probably that the effect on the rate is actually larger and some of it has spilled over into Treasuries as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing their interpretation of a concept and explaining their understanding of the situation.


Passage number 127.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Governor Duke.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no mention of Governor Duke in the passage.


Passage number 128.
 MS. DUKE. My question revolves around how your analysis and your conclusions would have been different if the banks had expressed a stronger willingness to lend some time in the near future.  It seems to me that when we started down this path, we did expect the rate we were paying to be a floor on the fed funds rate, and it turned out not to be.  But if the banks were strongly interested in lending and chasing loan funds, it seems as if that would be the point where it would turn out to be a floor.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating their perspective and asking a hypothetical question about how things would have been different if the banks had shown a stronger willingness to lend.


Passage number 129.
  Am I thinking about that correctly or not? MR. ENGLISH. It might well push up short-term rates, as banks were less likely to run off deposits and manage liabilities because they saw better lending opportunities.  In terms of the simulation that we did, one of the knobs we didn’t turn was an easing in credit.  If you turn that knob, you’d get a bigger effect on output and unemployment—still not huge, but a larger effect for sure.  So I think that, if the banks had been telling us, yes, we’re likely to ease our lending standards and terms early next year, then our exercise would have showed a bigger effect on output and probably a smaller effect on rates.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing hypothetical scenarios and their potential effects, without expressing any conflicting opinions or points of view.


Passage number 130.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough information given in the passage to determine if there is contention or disagreement involving President Fisher.


Passage number 131.
  MR. FISHER. First, Mr. Chairman, I agree with President Plosser’s question about TAF versus the penalty rate on the discount window, but we talked about that a long, long time ago.  I think it’s a good point to take into account. My question is for Bill.  We had four institutions in this little sample.  They account for 35 percent of the excess reserves.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is mostly agreeing with President Plosser's question and mentioning a point made by him in the past. The passage does not indicate any disagreement or conflicting perspectives.


Passage number 132.
  How many institutions would you have to take into account, say, to get to 75 percent of excess reserves or 50 percent?  In other words, are they concentrated in the top ten?  Five? Twenty?  Guess? MR. ENGLISH. I don’t know the answer.  I’d have to check.  I think the whole industry is concentrated, so if you took the top 25 banks, you’d probably have a huge majority of the reserves, but I just don’t know for sure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply admits to not knowing the answer for sure and acknowledges the possibility of a majority of reserves being held by the top 25 banks in the industry.


Passage number 133.
 MR. FISHER. I guess what concerns me is that these monies are languishing in the system.  They’re unlent and they’re unmultiplied.  And, again, here we have differentiation in the market.  We have been worried about when—just to use an ugly analogy—this giant fur ball finally gets released from this big pipe.  We’re worried about a way to neutralize it.  But meanwhile it’s lying fallow in a sense, from the standpoint of people that want to borrow, assuming there’s loan demand.  If you go through each one of your boxes, we don’t know how much buffer people want over regulatory norms— no increase in lending.  Mr. Lacker pointed out no change in lending terms and standards.  I guess, again, like President Plosser, I may be a dunce on this one.  I’m not saying you’re a dunce, Charles.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It mainly expresses the speaker's concerns about money in the system not being lent out and the uncertainty surrounding lending terms and standards. There is no opposing viewpoint or argument presented in the passage.


Passage number 134.
  [Laughter] MR. PLOSSER. I’ve been called worse things.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker indicates that they have been called worse things, but there is no indication of contention or disagreement within this statement.


Passage number 135.
 MR. FISHER.  I’ll share the dunce cap with you.  I’m concerned that this money is unlent and unmultiplied and represses velocity.  I realize that the suspenders that President Dudley talked about go to what we’re trying to treat, but that’s not an issue presently.  I just worry about the distortions it creates in the system, and I wondered if you had any comments on that, or maybe I just need a basic tutorial from you also.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their concern about the potential negative impacts of the mentioned money and its effect on the system. They are seeking clarification or comments from the person they are addressing.


Passage number 136.
 MR. ENGLISH. I need a little help on what your concern is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is asking for assistance and seeking clarification on what the concern is.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 137.
  MR. FISHER.  It concerns me that we’ve ramped up reserve balances to $1.2 trillion, money that we’re almost incentivizing not to go out into the marketplace and paying a rate of interest, right?  It’s small but it does concern me that it’s not being put into the system.  We have an unlent, unmultiplied buildup in reserves. Now, we worry that it could expand too quickly and come back in the system and that’s all of these treatments that you went through in your second presentation was all about.  But in the meantime, it’s like they’re sitting in the system lying fallow.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes

Explanation: The speaker expresses concern about the reserve balances not being put into the system and the potential negative consequences of this. This indicates a disagreement or contention with the current approach or policy.


Passage number 138.
  Am I missing something here? MS. YELLEN. We could cut the interest rate we pay on reserves, and then it would be less likely to lie fallow.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 139.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  It wouldn’t be in the system at all if we weren’t doing the quantitative easing, and it’s not constraining anything else because it’s not affecting leverage ratios.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not expressing disagreement or contention. It is a statement providing information about the effect of quantitative easing on the system and its impact on leverage ratios.


Passage number 140.
 MR. FISHER.  As I said, this is what happens in quantitative easing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement in the passage is presented as a fact without any indication of disagreement or controversy.


Passage number 141.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The word "right" by itself does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage. More context is needed to make a judgment.


Passage number 142.
 MR. FISHER. Anyway, your chart number 1 shows a very rapid rundown.  I’m just questioning, I guess, that rapid rundown, given the unwillingness of people to lend and the incentives we’re providing for reserve retention.  But if it’s a dumb question, let’s take it off the table, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is expressing skepticism about the rapid rundown shown in the chart but is open to the possibility that it may not be a valid concern.


Passage number 143.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Well, I think the decline in the stock of reserves has to do with the fact that securities that we’re bulking up on now will mature, the mortgages will prepay, and so those assets will run off over time, and currency will grow over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is stating a possible explanation for the decline in the stock of reserves, without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 144.
 MR. FISHER. I guess what I’ve gotten out of this conversation is a better understanding of why safe, short- and intermediate-term securities have been priced as they’ve been priced and are yielding what they’re yielding, but I remain concerned that these monies remain unlent and unmultiplied in the short term.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is stating their understanding of why certain securities are priced and yielding the way they are, but expressing concern about the lack of lending and multiplication of those funds in the short term.


Passage number 145.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 146.
  President Plosser, you had a two-hander? MR. PLOSSER. Yes. I wanted to follow up on Governor Duke’s question.  She asked about lending standards and banks’ behavior.  The way I interpreted what she was asking was about the supply side or willingness of banks to lend. But, as we witnessed in the last intermeeting period, a lot of the private-sector forecasts for growth have been ramped up substantially in the last few months, both for this year and for next year in some cases, to varying degrees.  So, in some ways, the issue is not just the banks’ willingness to lend, but also what the new demand for loans is going to be.  While banks may not lower their lending standards, as the demand for loans from the private sector begins to ramp up with continued economic growth, they may not change their lending standards, but those excess reserves will get translated into loans as the demand for new loans goes up, and the price may rise as well.  So it’s not just what the banks are willing to do, but also how demand will evolve over the course of this recovery that will determine some of that.  You did mention that, but I think both of them are clearly important.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is adding to the previous question and providing further explanation and clarification.


Passage number 147.
 MR. ENGLISH. I agree. As I think I said in my briefing, a couple of the banks pointed exactly to this. As the economy recovers, demand for loans will pick up even if they don’t do any easing at all.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 148.
 MR. PLOSSER. Exactly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the word "Exactly" alone as it is simply an affirmation or confirmation. However, without additional context, it is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage as a whole.


Passage number 149.
 MR. ENGLISH. They will have more creditworthy customers coming to them, and they plan to meet that demand.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states that the organization expects to have more creditworthy customers and intends to fulfill that demand. It does not indicate any form of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 150.
 MR. PLOSSER. Using reserves to do so.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the phrase "Using reserves to do so." It is a neutral statement that does not express any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 151.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: I'm sorry, but there is not enough information in the given passage to determine if there is contention or disagreement. Please provide more context or a complete sentence for a more accurate analysis.


Passage number 152.
 MR. LACKER. I will follow up on a couple of things.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Bill, you talked earlier about where in the yield curve you would expect the effect of quantitative easing to show up, and you suggested the short end.  I guess you’re thinking six months or less.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 153.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Well, the banks talked about short- and intermediate-term maturities out to two or three years.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is simply stating that the banks discussed maturities of two or three years, without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 154.
 MR. LACKER. Two or three years.  Okay.  We’ve seen that.  But you’re saying that because we’ve seen effects farther out the yield curve.  That counts against quantitative easing as a monocausal explanation for what has happened over the intermeeting period.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 155.
  But it doesn’t rule it out, right? MR. ENGLISH.  Well, it could be a piece.  I think it doesn’t rule it out, but, as I say, I would have expected a change in the shape of the yield curve.  What we got was pretty much a uniform shift.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting their opinion and reasoning without contradicting or opposing any other viewpoint.


Passage number 156.
 MR. LACKER. They hold a fair amount of agencies, is my understanding.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement is a simple statement of the speaker's understanding and does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 157.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Agency MBS for sure.  I’m not sure about straight agency debt.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 158.
 MR. LACKER. Yes, I don’t think there’s much debt.  I think agency MBS. Brian, I have a question about your yield effect estimates: Shouldn’t that depend on how they are financed, like what we do on the other side of our balance sheet, right?  If our early purchases were essentially sterilized by offsetting reductions in borrowings, that’s going to have a different effect on agency yields than if we add enough to reserves that it induces those yields to fall.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker is expressing a different view on the topic of debt and agency MBS, which potentially contradicts the previous statement. Additionally, the questioning of the yield effect estimates and the consideration of different financing methods implies a disagreement or difference in opinion.


Passage number 159.
 Do you see what I’m saying? MR. SACK. When you think about the effects through a portfolio-balance channel, you’re right that it depends on if and how the purchases are sterilized.  If you’re buying MBS and sterilizing that by selling long-term Treasuries, you’d be having a much smaller effect on duration in the market, and so it would be getting a smaller yield effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is simply stating that the effects on duration and yield would be smaller if the purchases are sterilized by selling long-term Treasuries. There is no contention or disagreement.


Passage number 160.
 MR. LACKER. Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is not expressing any conflicting or conflicting viewpoints or ideas. It simply presents a statement without any opposing or differing viewpoints.


Passage number 161.
 MR. SACK. If it’s sterilized through reverse repos, for example, even if the reserve paths aren’t different, essentially the portfolio-balance effect still works, because you’ve changed the duration and the supply of those assets in the market, which is what we think, at least partially, prompts the effect on yields.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement explains how the portfolio-balance effect still works even if the reserve paths are not different, by discussing the changes in duration and supply of assets in the market.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 162.
 MR. LACKER. The estimate you gave us earlier—I can’t remember what it was.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The speaker states that they cannot remember the estimate given earlier, indicating a disagreement or contention.


Passage number 163.
   What was the estimate?  MR. SACK.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 164.
 The estimate of the effect of total program purchases?MR. LACKER. No, it was the incremental effect.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, it was the incremental effect. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this statement. The sentence simply states that the effect was incremental, without any conflicting opinions or viewpoints.


Passage number 165.
 MR. SACK. I said that if the MBS purchases were ended at $1 trillion, then perhaps the upward pressure on MBS rates would be 15 to 30 basis points.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any disagreement or contention. It simply presents a hypothetical scenario and suggests a potential outcome.


Passage number 166.
 MR. LACKER. 15 to 30.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the given passage "15 to 30" as it is an incomplete phrase and lacks context.


Passage number 167.
 MR. SACK. Again, it’s a very uncertain estimate, but just to put an order of magnitude on the table.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker is acknowledging the uncertainty of the estimate but is simply providing a rough estimate for the sake of comparison or understanding. There is no obvious contention or disagreement present in the passage.


Passage number 168.
 MR. MADIGAN. If I could just break in for a minute, Brian’s estimates are consistent with our previous staff estimates, which were based on an event study methodology.  That, by its nature, should abstract from any effect due to changes in our financing of the securities.  We simply look at how much yields change during a narrow window of time in which announcements of our purchases were made, and we got estimates very similar to those that Brian did.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply providing an explanation of how Brian's estimates align with previous staff estimates and the methodology used to derive them.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 169.
 MR. SACK. Right. This is really to a point Bill Dudley made.  We are talking strictly about supply effects, portfolio-balance effects.  Any signals about the path of short-term interest rates or the FOMC’s policy inclinations would be on top of that.  So if it were interpreted as a step towards tightening, and market participants, for example, moved up the expected timing of tightening, you would get further effects.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There may be contention or disagreement in this passage as it talks about the interpretation of signals and the potential effects on market participants. Different individuals or groups may have different interpretations or expectations, leading to potential disagreement.


Passage number 170.
 MR. LACKER. Well, now I’m confused.  You gave us these estimates earlier in the year.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement simply expresses confusion and does not involve any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 171.
 Are you interpreting these announcements as being viewed by market participants as sterilized or unsterilized additions to the stock of our holdings? MR. SACK. I would say unsterilized. Certainly, the biggest announcements in March were beyond the period in which the Desk was sterilizing the operations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a personal opinion or observation without any opposing viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 172.
   MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 173.
 How does this estimate line up with what has happened so far, which presumably is sterilized? MR. SACK. I’m sorry.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The phrase "I'm sorry" implies that the speaker is apologizing for something, which usually indicates a disagreement or conflict that has occurred.


Passage number 174.
  What exactly is sterilized? MR. LACKER. You gave me some estimates of effects.  You were talking about estimates of effects that have occurred so far during a period where we have essentially sterilized them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 175.
 MR. SACK. No, I would say we have not sterilized the purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states that purchases have not been sterilized.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 176.
 MR. LACKER. I don’t see how you can say that.  Earlier in the year we were buying MBS, and you kept forecasting increases in reserves.  They kept not happening. Borrowing kept falling. It looks as if they were sterilized.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement or contention in the passage. The speaker states "I don't see how you can say that," indicating disagreement with the preceding statement or opinion. Additionally, they provide evidence to contradict the previous statement by referring to the past occurrence of buying MBS and the failure of the forecasted increases in reserves. This disagreement creates a sense of contention in the conversation.


Passage number 177.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. De facto sterilized because of the offsetting movements.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not express contention or disagreement. It simply states that someone is de facto sterilized because of offsetting movements.


Passage number 178.
 MR. LACKER. Yes. De facto sterilized by offsetting, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The given passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement that can be interpreted as presenting a fact or observation. There is no conflicting viewpoint or argument being expressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 179.
 MR. SACK. Okay. But if we’re talking about sterilization through short-term credit, and through the withdrawal of short-term credit, you’re still left with a change in the supply of the long-term asset, you’re still left with the shift in duration from the purchases.  There are different kinds of sterilization. If you’re sterilizing, as I said, by selling long-term assets, that would really work against the portfolio-balance effect.  If it’s being sterilized by reducing short-term credit, I don’t think it works against the portfolio-balance effect that much, because it is not affecting the fact that the market is holding that much less duration than it was before.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is stating that sterilization through selling long-term assets works against the portfolio-balance effect, while sterilization through reducing short-term credit does not have as much effect on the portfolio-balance effect.


Passage number 180.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I think I detected a little appetite for coffee around the table.  [Laughter] So why don’t we take fifteen minutes and come back at 4:05 p.m.?  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply suggests taking a break for coffee and thanks the audience.


Passage number 181.
 [Coffee break]CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Why don’t we recommence?  We’ve had a number of issues raised by the presentations. First, there were some recommendations from the Desk on large-scale asset purchases, including possible tapering strategies.  Second, we had some discussion of reserve management tools and the progress there.  Third, there was a proposal essentially on the TAF and the TSLF. Let me just mention parenthetically that, as I understand it from talking to Scott, no votes are needed to implement those proposals, because the TSLF directive in particular told the Desk to wind down the options as conditions permit.  I’d be happy to hear comments.  But if people would like to disagree with the press release or the plan, please say so. If we get more or less consensus around the table, we won’t have to take a formal action on that, I think. So those are three topics that we can talk about. This part of the meeting is billed on the agenda as an opportunity for informal, unstructured interaction [laughter], which I am going to duck, I think, in a minute.  I hope this is a chance for us just to have some interchange.  Let me just be very clear that we will not be making any decisions in this part of the meeting; the decisions on large-scale asset purchases, and so on, will be taken tomorrow in the policy round.  So please don’t feel that you are compelled to speak in order to get your voice heard—you will be heard.  But it would be useful, I think, to have some additional discussion. Before we get into that, I just wanted to say a word or two about the quantitative easing mechanism, because I feel as if there’s a certain amount of confusion going on.  So let me just say three straightforward things. The first point, and I think we all agree on this, is that any action we take—through purchases or auctions or whatever—to put reserves into the banking system, on net, will be expansionary, because whatever the banks do along the lines of what they told Bill English andhis colleagues—whether it’s buying other assets, or lending, or whatever action they take—will tend to be expansionary.  Of course, in equilibrium this will be reflected in lower short-term interest rates across a range of potential assets.  And that’s essentially how quantitative easing works. It’s meant to be expansionary, and I think it would be in the context that we’re using it here. President Yellen made a good point during the break, which was that quantitative easing should be expansionary even if the leverage ratio were binding.  The reason is that, in order to avoid the leverage ratio, firms would either have to get rid of managed liabilities or lower deposit rates and otherwise prevent the inflow of cash into their institution.  If depositors are not incentivized to put money into banks, they will go to money market mutual funds or to other types of short-term credit markets, and that, again, will have the effect of lowering short-term interest rates, and, therefore, be expansionary.  So I don’t think that there really is any barrier to quantitative easing being effective in our current institutional environment.   The second observation I would make is based on Bill’s simulations; based on what we know, we think the quantitative easing effects are probably pretty small.  Short-term interest rates are already low. They might be made a little bit lower by quantitative easing, but I don’t see much chance of a huge overshoot in a short period of time.  I think that’s not what the evidence suggests. It’s not what the Japanese experience suggests.  So quantitative easing should be expansionary, but I don’t see it as being a major part of our overall monetary policy stance. And then, the third thing I’d like to say is that we can exit from the high level of reserves.  We have, in fact, three methods to do that—we have two belts as well as a pair of suspenders.  First of all, we have the interest on reserves, which may be leaky, but certainly if it’s raised high enough it will tighten policy—there seems to be little doubt about that.  Second, we have the various ways of sterilizing reserves through reverse repos or time deposits.  I wasn’t quite clear  about the timing, but my sense is that these things will be coming online by early next year.  So over the time frame in which we would have to do a significant amount of tightening, we should have the tools in place to do that.  Then, of course, the third method we know we can do is sell assets. I think that that would not only have effects via the reversal of quantitative easing, but it also would have very powerful signaling and market effects.   These are very important issues for us to understand.  But I felt there was an impression somehow that we were not in control of the situation.  I don’t think that’s true.  Obviously, it’s a difficult and novel situation, but I do think that the staff and all of us working together have a pretty good understanding of how to manage this and how this relates to standard monetary policy. So that’s my little homily.  Let me now open up the floor for any comments on asset purchases, reserve management, TAF, TSLF, any of those things that anyone would like to bring up, and I would invite interaction.  Would anyone like to raise any points?  Ah, President Lacker, I knew I could count on you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is an opportunity for open discussion and the speaker encourages comments and interaction.


Passage number 182.
 [Laughter] MR. LACKER. I just have a question about SFP.  If you want to talk about this more tomorrow in your presentation, and tee it up to do that, I’m fine with that, but it sort of gets to a broader issue. The SFP is now projected to fall, consistent with the Treasury’s announcement, and then rise again. I noticed that in our previous Bluebook it had been projected to stay longer where it is now, fall, and remain at zero permanently.  I was confused about the shift in the forecast after this intermeeting period, and I wondered what that represents.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply a question and request for clarification.


Passage number 183.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, let me comment on that briefly.  First of all, I think it’s important for us to be able to do what we need to do without relying on the Treasury.  Obviously, we need to maintain that independence and that flexibility.  Whatever help they can provide, of  course, is a bonus. I’ve had some discussions with Secretary Geithner and others, and the view was that because the debate on the debt ceiling—which will probably be toward the end of the year—could be contentious for a lot of reasons, it would be a good idea for us to have a low profile and not be part of this discussion. For that reason, I suggested to him that they run it down to a very low level until such time as all that discussion was completed.  Once the debt ceiling is raised, they are perfectly comfortable bringing the SFPs back up to some level.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion and suggesting a course of action but there is no disagreement presented or mentioned.


Passage number 184.
  Of course, at one point, it was over $500 billion—is that right, Brian? MR. MADIGAN. That’s correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement simply affirms that something is correct without implying any kind of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 185.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. So there’s some scope there, depending on how high the debt ceiling goes. But that being said, there is a sort of sine wave aspect of this, if we run into a debt ceiling again, for example, at the end of next year.  So I think it’s something that will on average be of some assistance if we get into a sterilization mode, but clearly we don’t want to count on that as an essential element of our strategy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the potential impact of the debt ceiling and acknowledges that it could be helpful in certain situations but should not be relied upon as a primary strategy.


Passage number 186.
 MR. LACKER. It’s a $185 billion bulge, obviously.  And it adds a lot, right at the peak of that curve there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about the size of the bulge and its impact at the peak.


Passage number 187.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage is not discussing any opposing views or conflicting arguments.


Passage number 188.
 When is the peak in the reserves? MR. MADIGAN. It’s early next year.  It’s in Bill’s chart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states a fact about a time in the future and a chart belonging to Bill.


Passage number 189.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Middle of next year, I thought.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The phrase "middle of next year, I thought" does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply suggests the speaker's thought about a particular time in the future.


Passage number 190.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Well, I think there’s an early peak because of the SFP, and then the later peak because of the condition of our purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The statement does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply presents the speaker's opinion on the existence of two peaks, one attributed to the SFP (which is not defined) and the other to the condition of their purchases.


Passage number 191.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Right. There’s a peak because of the SFP, but, of course, the balance sheet doesn’t max out until after the MBS would be settled sometime early next year.  And by that time, if all goes well, the SFP would be back in action.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 
This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement about the timing of certain events and expresses optimism about the future.


Passage number 192.
  MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage as it does not express any conflicting or contradictory ideas.


Passage number 193.
 You took into account the monetary policy effects when you discussed this with the Secretary? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Well, given that we’re not in a mode of tightening at this point, I think that the effects would occur only through quantitative easing.  I think they’d be modest. But if necessary, of course, we can adjust in other dimensions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that the effects would occur through quantitative easing and believes they would be modest. They also mention the possibility of adjusting in other dimensions if necessary.


Passage number 194.
  MR. LACKER. The longer-run projection used to be zero.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The statement "The longer-run projection used to be zero" is a statement of fact and does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 195.
  Why were we projecting zero, and then we changed that to $200 billion? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I don’t know.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is no contention or disagreement expressed in the passage "I don’t know." It is a statement of uncertainty or lack of knowledge rather than a position that can be challenged or debated.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 196.
 MR. MADIGAN. On further reflection, we thought it might make more sense just to assume that the level was held up, because it is a possible tool for absorbing reserves in the future.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage presents a possible alternative perspective or approach, suggesting further consideration or disagreement with the previous line of thinking.


Passage number 197.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 198.
 Do we have an understanding with the Treasury about it returning to $200 billion? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. My personal discussions with the Secretary suggested that they were very comfortable raising it up again when the debt ceiling permitted.  But, again, I don’t think we should have either a formal understanding nor should we rely on it because of the independence issue.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It mentions personal discussions with the Secretary and expresses a personal opinion about not relying on a formal understanding due to an independence issue.


Passage number 199.
 Vice Chairman, did you have a comment? VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I don’t know if we should talk about the agency MBS purchase program today or tomorrow, but it is 4:15, so today seems like a good time.  I think your comments on the exit were very appropriate in the sense that if we really think that the exit is manageable, then you really have to take that concern off the table in  terms of thinking about the agency MBS purchase program.  So the discussion is then based on how do you want financial conditions to evolve over the next, say, 6 to 12 months? My view is that the end of the agency MBS purchase program is going to tighten financial conditions over that time frame, in any case.  We can argue about how much it’s going to tighten, but it’s going to move in that direction.  So the question is: Given that we’re already on a path that financial conditions are going to tighten, why would you want to pare back this program?  That would just exacerbate the tightening in financial conditions at a time that policy is not as accommodative as we would like.  If you look at the Bluebook, the unconstrained federal funds rate path is minus 4 percent.  So I really don’t see the logic for why we’d want to back away from this program, if we stipulate that we aren’t worried about the exit problem. If you are worried about the exit problem, then I can understand why you could care about whether the balance sheet was $100 billion bigger or smaller.  My view is that not only should we do the entire $1¼ trillion, I think we should commit to doing that $1¼ trillion at this meeting for three reasons.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 200.
 MR. BULLARD. Are we doing the policy debate now?  I can get into the policy debate, if you want.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking if the policy debate is taking place and expressing a willingness to participate in it if desired.


Passage number 201.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Let’s let him finish, and then you can respond.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply suggesting to wait for the person to finish speaking before responding.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 202.
 MR. BULLARD. You just said, “Don’t go off on your policy round today.”  He’s preempting the debate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that there is disagreement or a potential for contention. The person speaking urges the other person not to engage in the policy round, indicating that they may have different opinions or perspectives about it. The statement "He's preempting the debate" also implies a potential disagreement or conflicting positions.


Passage number 203.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I’m happy to defer until tomorrow, if you’d like.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses their willingness to delay something until the following day if the other person prefers to do so.


Passage number 204.
 MR. BULLARD. I don’t mind, but if you want to do it now, we can do it now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is open to doing something now if the other person wants to, but they are also okay with doing it at a later time.


Passage number 205.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. "All right" is a simple phrase indicating agreement or approval.


Passage number 206.
  Why don’t you defer that point until tomorrow? VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Okay. Fair enough.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement does not express any disagreement or contention. It is a neutral response indicating acceptance or agreement.


Passage number 207.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Are there any other questions about the broader issues? President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply asks if there are any additional questions about the broader issues. There is no conflicting viewpoint or argument presented.


Passage number 208.
 MR. LOCKHART. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I had the impression from earlier conversations we’ve had that, at least at one stage, there were two mechanisms under consideration, one being the classic corridor system and the other being a mechanism more centered on interest on reserves, where the interest on reserves would become the policy rate.  Is it a foregone conclusion that we’re going back to a classic corridor system?  The whole discussion is about the ability to manipulate excess reserves in an interest on reserves regime to a degree that we could decouple those things.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is seeking clarification and asking a question about the system under consideration.


Passage number 209.
  Maybe I’m the one who is unclear, but are we going back to a classic corridor system?  Is that a foregone conclusion? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, we weren’t really on a corridor system before.  We had a target, which was the federal funds rate, and we were manipulating reserves to hit that target. Our interest on reserves strategy would be a corridor system.  It would be a rate at which we would pay interest, which presumably would be the floor or would help establish the floor, and then there would be a lending rate, which would presumably be the ceiling. I think that’s a really good question.  Here’s the problem we have with the federal funds rate: Given some of the things we might be doing in order to try to get better control of reserves, we may make the federal funds rate a less informative interest rate.  For example, right now most of the liquidity in the federal funds market is coming from the GSEs.  If we start pulling their liquidity out in order to firm up the interest rate floor, then the federal funds market might be a very illiquid market.  There’s still a bank-to-bank market, but we don’t have the same kind of data on that.   So I think we have three options—Brian, you and the staff can certainly comment.  One would be to find a way to do the federal funds rate, including perhaps additional information from bank transactions.  The second would be to choose another short-term rate, like the repo rate, which might work.  And the third would be to make the interest rate on reserves and the primary credit rate the announced variables, which, of course, we know we can do.  We could imagine a statement of policy that would announce changes in those two interest rates, plus some open market operations to sterilize a certain amount of reserves.  I’ve mentioned this to staff.  I do think we need to give this some more thought.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing different options and considering the pros and cons of each one.


Passage number 210.
  Brian, do you have anything to add? MR. MADIGAN. Just one additional comment, Mr. Chairman.  I think it would be helpful, and I wasn’t sure what exactly President Lockhart’s question was directed at in the following sense. I think it’s useful to distinguish between the transition phase, where there will be a very high level of reserve balances—and that may be over a matter of years—and the subsequent long-run steady state for monetary policy implementation.  They may involve two fairly different approaches to implementing monetary policy.  For instance, it may be the case that the excess reserves rate does serve as the floor, or at least a soft floor, during the transition phase, as the quantity of reserves is going down.  But the Committee would have it at its disposal, and the staff would come back to report to the Committee at some point on the possibility of a number of different operating frameworks further in the future.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is providing additional context and clarifying the different approaches to implementing monetary policy during the transition phase and the long-run steady state.


Passage number 211.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 212.
 You’re working on that? MR. MADIGAN. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Yes, because the passage presents opposing viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 213.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay, good. Any other points?  Governor Warsh.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 214.
 MR. WARSH.  There was discussion in a memo about when we get to exit, and whether we should supplement those actions with asset sales.  There was also a discussion with plenty of  caveats about what kind of losses could be realized on that portfolio if rates were to go up 100 basis points. My first instinct was, “Boy, we could hedge that perfectly.”  [Laughter] But then I realized the imprudence of that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 215.
  If we don’t sell those securities, but, in a continued vanguard of transparency, the world is aware of these embedded losses, do we know how that would impact our reporting?  What kind of regime, both from a GAAP sense and also a public disclosure sense, would govern us? Is it the sale of these long-term assets that is the question, or is it the embedded losses that could potentially be the question? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Let me give that a try.  Just from a pure accounting perspective, we’re on a cost basis, so we wouldn’t be reporting any capital losses.  I think it’s not clear that the capital losses or gains are very material to anything for the following reasons.  So long as our cost of carry—which is zero on cash plus whatever rates we pay on deposits, and so on—is below the coupon on the MBS, then we would be making positive flow income, which is seigniorage to the Treasury. From an income perspective, unless we get to about 8 percent short-term rates—I think that’s the number that was calculated in an earlier meeting—we’ll actually be making money in some sense on these transactions, which will then be reflected in payments to the Treasury. So I think from that perspective the politics is okay. If we sell a lot of assets, then we have to realize the losses.  That probably has not much economic meaning; it could have some public relations implications.  Since we’re dealing only with appearances and not with actuality, one way to deal with that would be to try to sell assets that are in the money first or pair them with assets that are in losses.  That would be one way to sell assets without realizing net losses.   The final comment I would make is that I’ve had some discussions with the Treasury about this, because we’ll be returning to the Treasury very high levels of seigniorage over the   next few years. I think there would be some basis for withholding some of those earnings to augment our capital, so that if we do have losses, we’d be able to absorb them.  Those are some of the considerations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker in this passage presents a different perspective on the issue of capital losses and gains, suggesting that they may not be very material and that selling assets without realizing net losses is a possible solution. This viewpoint may be in contention with others who view the capital losses as significant and worth considering.


Passage number 216.
 Would Brian or anyone like to add to that? MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the following passage.


Passage number 217.
 A capital buffer for us? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without the actual passage provided, it is impossible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement. Please provide the passage in question for a more accurate assessment.


Passage number 218.
 MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is not providing any conflicting viewpoints or arguments. It simply seems to be stating information or opinions without any indication of disagreement or contentiousness.


Passage number 219.
 Above our statutory? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We don’t have statutory capital.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement does not express any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating a fact about the situation.


Passage number 220.
 MR. LACKER. Above what we do now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It simply introduces a topic without taking a position or stating opposing views.


Passage number 221.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Without knowing the specific passage, it is impossible to determine whether there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 222.
 MR. WARSH.  Just as a follow-up, Mr. Chairman, I have an accounting question.  I take what you say and it makes sense, but suppose we were to sell assets that were some subset of the overall pool and substantially similar to assets we didn’t sell.  Even though we’re in this cost accounting regime, I wondered whether or not some more explicit imputed loss would be attributed, if not in the consolidated financial statements, then in the balance sheet.  If we were in the world of a real bank and those unsold assets were similar, then you’d be stuck with that problem.  But, again, I don’t know if from a government GAAP perspective that’s a real accounting problem or if from a political economy or transparency perspective that begs the question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking a question and expressing uncertainty about whether there would be a specific accounting problem or issue in a hypothetical situation.


Passage number 223.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m no accounting expert, but because we buy and sell assets all the time and it doesn’t affect our cost basis accounting, I can’t imagine that that would have a direct implication.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not mention any conflicting opinions or disagreement. It is stating a personal observation and expressing a lack of understanding on the subject. There is no contention or disagreement present in the passage.


Passage number 224.
 Governor Duke? MS. DUKE.  There is a reason why we don’t mark them to market, and I’ve read it, and I can’t remember what it was.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply stating that the speaker, Duke, has read about a reason why something is not marked to market, but cannot recall the specific reason.


Passage number 225.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Well, this may be it.  [Laughter] Did anyone have any concerns or comments?  President Plosser and President Fisher noted the issue on penalty rates, but did anyone have any other issues about the proposal to reduce the two auction facilities? Any other comments or observations?  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any disagreement or contention. The speaker is simply asking if anyone has any concerns or comments about a specific proposal.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 226.
 MR. LACKER. I’d just like to second the notion that the minimum bid rate is a policy parameter that we set, and I fail to see why an auction would be inconsistent with raising that to a penalty rate. And it’s a little odd that the term structure is inverted for those funds.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker is expressing disagreement with the idea that an auction would be inconsistent with raising the minimum bid rate to a penalty rate. They also find it odd that the term structure is inverted for those funds.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 227.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, I actually have some sympathy for this view, and the only thing that worries me a bit at this juncture is that it’s kind of a funny time to be changing the structure of the auction when we’re in the process of winding it down.  But I think that arguably we could have had a higher minimum bid rate earlier on.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses sympathy for a certain view but also raises a concern about changing the structure of the auction during a specific period.


Passage number 228.
 MR. PLOSSER. Just to follow up with that, I appreciate that comment.  I think what that should suggest to us is that the staff could begin to pursue how to think about a more permanent, longer-term life for the TAF.  This is an issue that needs to be grappled with so that in the future we don’t find ourselves having this same debate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It expresses appreciation for a comment and suggests that there should be consideration given to finding a more permanent solution in the future.


Passage number 229.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Absolutely. My understanding is that, in order to have the TAF as an ongoing facility, even in reserve, we would have to do a rulemaking.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their understanding and suggesting a course of action.


Passage number 230.
  Is that correct? MR. MADIGAN. I believe that’s correct, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses agreement with the statement made by the Chairman.


Passage number 231.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I believe that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this statement. The speaker simply expresses their belief that something is correct.


Passage number 232.
 Scott? MR. ALVAREZ. Yes, that’s right.  In fact, we committed to putting the proposal out for comment before making the TAF a permanent facility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement is a simple affirmation of a commitment made by the speaker. There is no indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 233.
  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay, we would do a rulemaking for comment.  That would be an excellent opportunity to make any revisions to the structure for our permanent facility. We do need to vote to ratify open market operations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is suggesting that a rulemaking for comment would be a good opportunity to make revisions to the structure of their permanent facility, and they mention that they need to vote to ratify open market operations. There is no indication of any disagreement or conflicting opinions in this statement.


Passage number 234.
 MR. KOHN. So moved.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "So moved" is a phrase commonly used in formal settings, such as meetings or debates, to indicate agreement or support for a proposal or motion. It does not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 235.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Any opposed?   (No response.)  Okay, thank you. If everyone is okay with it, why don’t we turn now to the economic outlook?  And the presentation will be by Dave Stockton and Nathan Sheets.  Dave.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 236.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much.  Are there questions for our colleagues?  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a polite expression of gratitude and a request for questions, there is no indication of any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 237.
  MR. PLOSSER. I have a question. Dave, both you and Nathan referred to financial headwinds as one of the downsides or stresses to growth going forward.  That phrase has come up a lot over the last couple of years. As financial markets have improved, I was wondering if I could get a handle on the degree to which financial headwinds affect this forecast compared with the degree that you marked down your earlier forecasts when you also saw headwinds.  Has the picture changed for you in some way?  I’m not saying that headwinds have necessarily gone away, but have they changed given the evolution of the financial markets, and, if so, how?  And how is that reflected in your forecast?  And, Nathan, for the international side, the same question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification about the impact of financial headwinds on the forecast, specifically in relation to the changing financial markets.


Passage number 238.
 MR. STOCKTON. Between the August forecast and this forecast, there really hasn’t been any significant change. In our measures of financial stress, we haven’t learned anything more because we haven’t gotten another Senior Loan Officer survey to gauge bank lending.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The statement is simply stating that there has been no significant change between two forecasts and that the lack of a Senior Loan Officer survey is preventing the measurement of financial stress.


Passage number 239.
 MR. PLOSSER. Since last spring, though.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough context provided in the passage to determine if there is contention or disagreement.


Passage number 240.
 MR. STOCKTON: But since last spring things have changed.  We’ve tried to be symmetrical in our response to the deterioration.  As you know, we were marking down our forecast by more than would be suggested by the standard interest rate, wealth, and exchange rate channels. As things have improved, we’ve taken some of those negative add-factors out of our spending equations and allowed spending to come back more closely to the equations than was the case in our forecast in March when we had very substantial negative adds going out through the end of the forecast horizon, but not really lessening very much over the course of this year. As things have improved, we’re interpreting some of the upward revisions that we’ve made to the forecast, which are very substantial for the second half of this year, as a reflection of improved overall financial conditions, some of which operate through our model—the stock market, interest rates, the exchange rate—but others of which operate through channels that the   model doesn’t incorporate, such as through tight bank lending and other kinds of constraints.  I don’t have a quantitative number that I can just pull out of the air here, but I’d say a noticeable fraction of that improvement in the incoming data probably reflects the fact that we’re not getting as much restraint coming from those financial conditions as we had previously thought.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing how their response to the deterioration in the forecast has been symmetrical and how they have adjusted their spending equations based on improved financial conditions. There is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 241.
 MR. PLOSSER. Well, how much of the improvement of your forecast, in some sense, is reflected in the diminishing of the negative add-factors that you had been putting in before and how much of it is really the model?  I think you probably gave me as close to an answer on that as I’m going to get.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that the other person has given them as close to an answer as they can expect to receive.


Passage number 242.
  [Laughter] MR. STOCKTON. You may recall that, as we showed in a number of Greenbooks, we were consulting some reduced-form models that incorporated measures of financial stress.  We were looking at correlating those measures of financial stress with residuals in the FRB/US equation. They’ve generally moved in a more favorable direction— not uniformly, but generally in a more favorable direction.  The reason it’s so difficult to be very precise is that the magnitudes of that improvement differ a lot by those various measures and various models.  I think that if you look at what’s happened in the second half of this year and, given that it hasn’t all just occurred as an end of an inventory cycle —we’re seeing some better final sales as well— it reflects an improvement in these financial channels.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 243.
 MR. PLOSSER. Okay. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is simply a polite response expressing gratitude.


Passage number 244.
 Nathan? MR. SHEETS. Just briefly, I’d say that there have been probably three major factors that have driven the upward revisions to our forecast since the March Greenbook, which was the trough. One is the very surprising rebound in emerging Asia.  Economic growth in emerging Asia in the second quarter was at an annual rate of  14.5 percent.  There’s no way that we would have seen that coming.  In particular, the fiscal stimulus in China came on much more quickly  and powerfully than we expected. A second factor that’s operating on our forecast, particularly for North American countries—Mexico and Canada—is the markup in the U.S., which has a very powerful effect, and to some extent the markup in emerging Asia.  The third major factor has been the much more rapid improvement in global financial conditions than we would have expected. So it’s one of the three major factors.  I’m not sure exactly how we want to allocate it across those three factors, but that’s roughly the order of magnitude. One other thought that I want to articulate is that I look at these headwinds as being a factor that’s weighing on economic growth and affecting our central forecast, but, in addition, I look at it as a downside risk—these headwinds may prove to be more debilitating than what we factored into our forecast.  Therefore, because of these headwinds, we have a slower pace of foreign growth, particularly in the advanced economies, than we would otherwise; we also have a distribution of risk that’s more skewed to the downside than would be the case without them.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a description and analysis of various factors affecting economic growth, without conflicting viewpoints or conflicting information.


Passage number 245.
 MR. PLOSSER. Just one clarification: Would you characterize the improvement in financial conditions that we’ve seen outside the U.S. as of roughly the same order of magnitude that we witnessed in the U.S.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is seeking clarification or confirmation about the improvement in financial conditions outside the U.S. and comparing it to the improvement witnessed in the U.S.


Passage number 246.
? MR. SHEETS. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. Without the actual passage provided, it is not possible to pinpoint the exact source of contention or disagreement. However, the presence of disagreement can be inferred from the use of contrasting ideas, conflicting perspectives, or opposing arguments within the passage.


Passage number 247.
 MR. PLOSSER. And would you say that there’s not a great differential between what’s going on in the U.S.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is asking for a subjective opinion about the situation in the U.S.


Passage number 248.
 and what’s going on in the countries that are the most important for our growth?  In other words, would you say that they’ve improved by roughly the same order of magnitude that we have? MR. SHEETS. I would say yes, by a similar order of magnitude, but with the footnote that perhaps the headwinds in some of the emerging-market economies are not as great because their financial institutions have not been as affected by this crisis.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The author is offering their opinion and adding a caveat or footnote about a specific aspect.


Passage number 249.
  MR. PLOSSER. Thank you very much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "Thank you very much" expresses gratitude and does not include any conflicting ideas or opinions.


Passage number 250.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 251.
 Governor Kohn, you had a two-hander? MR. KOHN. I was going to make the last point that Nathan just made.  We heard it from the BIS. I think that some of the emerging-market economies felt that their financial markets were coming back very quickly, and inflows of capital were resuming and, if anything, they were beginning to get concerned about rising asset prices. I guess this applies to Australia as well to the emerging-market economies in Asia.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not exhibit contention or disagreement. It simply discusses the perspective of emerging-market economies regarding their financial markets.


Passage number 252.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 253.
 MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Dave, this is probably more of an observation than a question. The alternative scenarios often present very interesting possibilities, and two that caught my eye this time were, one, the earlier liftoff and, two, greater disinflation.  These are diametrically opposed.  On the one hand, early liftoff has the inflation rate going to 2.8 percent in 2013, whereas greater disinflation has it at 0 percent during that time frame.  Looking at the confidence intervals, they’re both outside of 90 percent during those time periods, so I take it you don’t see either of those as particularly likely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage presents two alternative scenarios, early liftoff and greater disinflation, and acknowledges that they are diametrically opposed. However, there is no contention or disagreement expressed.


Passage number 254.
  But I guess the question is:  When can we know that we can take one of these off the table? What type of explanation would you be looking for there? MR. STOCKTON.  I suspect it will be a while before that occurs.  I think what we’re trying to illustrate is that thinking about the evolution of inflation expectations going forward is critical, and we don’t have a very good grasp in the current environment of what might be driving those inflation expectations. Now, the accelerationist Phillips curve—the faster, greater disinflation scenario— basically follows pretty closely the kind of disinflation you might get out of a backward-looking Phillips curve that fits the data, though not perfectly, over the past with some reasonable degree of accuracy.  But implicit in that is a very substantial decline in inflation expectations.  So the staff has been surprised that we’ve gone through a year in which the unemployment rate has risen as rapidly as it has, and we’ve really seen no signs that inflation expectations are breaking to the downside. On the other hand, there’s the earlier liftoff.  A number of you have expressed concerns that, given the current setting of policy, or the size of the balance sheet, inflation expectations could be unleashed to the upside.  So that scenario considers what happens if we get a faster recovery in a world in which policy is not being tightened aggressively.  Specifically, could you get some significant upward shift in inflation expectations? It seems possible. I think you’re right that we don’t see either of those two extreme outcomes as the most likely, but I don’t see any alternative other than to monitor very carefully what’s happening on the inflation expectation side and, going forward, obviously to look at all of the price and wage data and so forth that would be important.  But I’d consider expectations to be pretty central to that process.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is discussing different scenarios involving inflation expectations and acknowledging the need to monitor and consider various factors in the process. There is no explicit disagreement or conflicting viewpoints presented in the passage.


Passage number 255.
 MR. EVANS. Okay. Thanks. Very well done.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing gratitude and complimenting the work done by someone else.


Passage number 256.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. It is a simple statement expressing gratitude towards President Lockhart.


Passage number 257.
 MR. LOCKHART. I have a question for Nathan regarding the dollar, and it relates to your tracking the tone of the market over the intermeeting period.  Yes, the dollar has stabilized in the last few days, but two or three weeks ago it was under pretty severe pressure.  I know it’s a tremendous exaggeration, but one begins to think about the dollar in a rout of some kind—the markets really selling off strongly—and, at least in theory, that could produce some response on   our part.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their question and sharing their thoughts about the dollar's recent performance.


Passage number 258.
 How do you follow and think about the dollar and, as I call it, the tone of the market? Are you in touch with people in the market, or are we just tracking it more quantitatively? MR. SHEETS. Let me give some background.  From July of 2008 through early March of this year, the broad index of the dollar appreciated by about 20 percent.  Since early March, the dollar has given back about two-thirds of that strength.  The story that we’ve told—and I think it continues to be the most compelling story—is that that appreciation of the dollar was driven by a sharp increase in risk aversion and risk appetite as people moved en masse into Treasuries; then, over the last six months, as conditions have improved, there’s been an unwinding of some of those risk-related flows, and the dollar has, accordingly, depreciated.  We’ve also seen rather marked appreciations of a number of emerging market economy exchange rates, which would be consistent with the story that folks are more comfortable taking on risk. Now, specifically over the intermeeting period, we continue to hear this story about increased risk aversion. A lot of attention was paid to the bilateral rate with the euro—the dollar did fall quite a bit over the intermeeting period against the euro—but there was an offset to that due to an appreciation against the pound and against the Mexican peso.  So all in all, the overall move was relatively limited.  Nevertheless, tone is tone, and we continue to pay attention to it.  I have to say that I firmly believe that the dollar is traded in a market, and sometimes it’s going to go up and sometimes it’s going to go down. Ultimately, if the United States pursues sound policies, in my view, there will be attractive investment opportunities here, and that will support the dollar over the medium term.  But it’s our responsibility to make sure that those sound and strong policies are being put in place. So all in all, I’m not too concerned so far.  But it’s something that we have to monitor   very closely, and we need to pay attention to what we’re hearing.  Why is the dollar falling?  Is it a lack of confidence in U.S. policymakers, particularly on the fiscal side? You hear murmurs from time to time that that’s a concern.  So the fiscal situation is certainly something that’s weighing on the dollar. But, why is it going down?  It’s the tone of U.S. policies, and it’s imperative that U.S. policies be able to deliver an array of investment opportunities so that we’ll be attractive for international investors.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is giving their opinion on the factors influencing the decline in the value of the dollar and stating their belief in the importance of sound policies to support the dollar in the long term.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 259.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Nathan, I think it’s worth pointing out, though, that the behavior of the yields on Treasuries is a little bit inconsistent with this whole story and gives us something of a puzzle.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The use of phrases such as "I think it's worth pointing out" and "a little bit inconsistent" indicates that the author has a different perspective or interpretation than Nathan. This suggests that there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 260.
 MR. SHEETS. Indeed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "Indeed" is not a word that typically signifies contention or disagreement. It is used to emphasize agreement or confirmation.


Passage number 261.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine the presence of contention or disagreement in the given passage without any accompanying text.


Passage number 262.
 MR. FISHER. Mr. Chairman, if I can, I just want to compliment the presenters.  Over the last five years the quality of these presentations gets better and better.  I particularly want to tip my hat—no offense Dave—to Nathan, because the understanding of these global interlinkages—without taking anything away from your predecessors—is far more erudite than it was before. I much appreciate it. My question is about productivity. I would expect that globalization would have an impact on enhancing the productivity of our own economy here at home, and I deduce from listening to my corporate interlocutors that, indeed, they have been driving to achieve greater productivity as they have worked their way through this recession.  I infer from the numbers I get from my staff that, indeed, productivity has held up rather well throughout this recession and, in fact, perhaps better than it has in previous U.S. recessions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 263.
  So my question is:  How does this affect your outlook for the pace of recovery and for inflation, if my assumption is correct? MR. STOCKTON. In terms of the productivity in the United States, we have been surprised in the first half of this year by its strength.  Our interpretation was largely that, as things started to collapse late last year, firms were a bit slow to cut payrolls.  Even though those cuts were huge, they were, in fact, fairly modest, relative to the size of the output declines, so we got a little cyclical downswing in productivity.  Since the first half of this year, firms have been exceedingly aggressive at cutting costs and extracting higher productivity gains.  In this forecast, we’re interpreting that as firms squeezing their work forces currently very hard and as being unlikely to let up quickly on that. But we do think there’s going to be a gradual return.  Productivity is now probably above what we think the structural trend would be, and there will be some return to that structural trend slowly through a slowdown in the growth of productivity going forward. Firms won’t be able to continue to extract the 4, 5, and 6 percent increases in productivity that they’ve gotten in recent quarters; it’s likely to slow down to more like 1½ percent. That’s an important risk in the outlook, because it’s clear that if, in fact, we were to have another year or two of gains in productivity that average close to 4 percent, we would be looking at something that looked more like a jobless recovery.  Even though GDP growth might look reasonably well sustained, it would be with less employment growth and a higher unemployment rate than is incorporated in the baseline forecast.  Why haven’t we put that into the baseline forecast? At this point I think that’s a serious issue and one that we’re going to have to confront if, in fact, productivity stays as high as it has been recently.  I guess we’re just reluctant at this point to interpret what’s happened over the course of the past two years as a big, positive supply shock to the U.S. economy. It’s possible there’s some sort of X-efficiency operating where businesses are under incredible pressure, and they’ll learn to do things differently, and they’llcontinue to learn to do things more effectively in the future.  But right now, I think we’re staying agnostic about whether this is a negative or positive supply shock.  We resisted marking down our potential output a whole lot when the crisis first began and people were talking about a big negative supply shock. In retrospect, I think that still was a pretty good call, but we’re also reluctant to think that we’re going to get a big increase in sustained productivity growth going forward—but it’s possible. And I think a jobless recovery that’s generated through both faster productivity and maybe somewhat longer work weeks for workers is a real risk to the outlook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage discusses the potential for a jobless recovery due to high levels of productivity and the reluctance to interpret it as either a negative or positive supply shock.


Passage number 264.
 MR. FISHER. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is no passage provided to analyze for contention or disagreement.


Passage number 265.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Other questions?  (No response.) Okay, seeing none, why don’t we begin our economic go-round? And President Lockhart, you’re the leadoff hitter.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple exchange with no conflicting ideas or opposing viewpoints being expressed.


Passage number 266.
 MR. LOCKHART. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First I have just a quick comment to Dave Stockton. Because of our trade policy, chicken entrails could back up in Georgia, and if you want to change your policy on that, we can help.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing gratitude and offering assistance regarding a potential issue with trade policy.


Passage number 267.
  [Laughter] MR. STOCKTON. I’ve got to take a look, I guess.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing a personal opinion or decision.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 268.
 MR. LOCKHART. Much like the Greenbook, my views have moved in the direction of greater optimism since the last Committee meeting in August.  The incoming data have been a little stronger than were anticipated then.  At this late September juncture, I think the picture can be characterized as improving, but still with very mixed vital signs, and the outlook is somewhat more optimistic but tempered by awareness that this is an economy powered by a large number of government supports.  I agree with all who are declaring that a technical recovery is under way, but it is a tentative recovery, not well established.  Even with the improving data, I think there is substantial uncertainty around the question of whether the recovery has its own legs or is  propelled by transitory government programs.  Governor Tarullo in the last meeting talked about a relapse scenario. I see the economy as still vulnerable to relapse. Over the last two weeks, our Sixth District contacts provided a lot of support for this view of the current reality. Sixth District realtors and homebuilders reported that the first-time homebuyer subsidy noticeably boosted new home sales and construction of moderately priced properties. The “cash-for-clunkers” program provided a big lift to Southeast auto dealers and cut deeply into new car inventories. In response to the Board’s request, our regional executives contacted six state budget officials.  They told us that the stimulus money, as intended, has helped support construction activity, but it represents spending that would have been cut or funded by running down rainy day funds. This input supports the view that stimulus spending is mainly eliminating a negative in the outlook. In this contact cycle involving directors and other business leaders, we tried to probe their sense of factors critical to transitioning from government support to sustained growth based on private demand. Our business contacts said that the inventory drawdown is slowing but may not be followed by an increase even as sales increase.  As the Chairman pointed out at the last meeting, in the near term, inventories don’t have to rise to improve economic growth, they just have to fall more slowly. Nonetheless, we’re hearing claims on the part of some businesspeople of permanent adjustments to inventory requirements and businesses.  Apart from a modest rise in back-to-school spending, general merchandise retailers reported continuing restrained consumer demand.  Transport firms reported very little in the way of increased activity, and the Sixth District survey of purchasing managers reveals a drop in new orders and production after more promising numbers in July.  As regards employment, we heard that layoffs have subsided, but there is no indication yet that firms anticipate hiring.  In summary, the nascent optimism expressed by my contacts just before the last FOMC meeting has been supplanted with unease over the economy as the influence of public support programs diminishes. We are revising up our third-quarter GDP estimate and are inclined to do the same for the fourth quarter, but in comparison with the Greenbook, I remain much less bullish about 2010 and 2011. There are reasons at this juncture to question whether the economy will have healed enough for a significant expansion of private demand.  I would cite several factors likely to weigh on the economy through the medium term:  high unemployment, cautious business investment, diminished consumer finance, the potential drag on the banking system from commercial real estate, the slow repair of the banking system, and slow-moving adjustments, such as intersectoral labor movements. Regarding prices, the incoming data show disinflation to be more persistent and more broad-based than the Atlanta bank put in its last forecast submission.  I think these disinflation trends bear watching, but at the moment, I still judge inflation risks to be roughly balanced. As regards growth, the incoming data have clearly been more positive, and I would judge the balance of risks to be more balanced than was my view in August.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. In this passage, there is contention or disagreement. The speaker acknowledges that there have been some positive economic signs but expresses concerns about the sustainability of the recovery and the potential negative factors that could impact future growth. They also mention that their views differ from the more optimistic outlook presented in the Greenbook.


Passage number 269.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states a statement addressed to President Plosser without indicating any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 270.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 271.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply states the title or position of President Rosengren without any indication of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 272.
 MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The incoming data since the last meeting give us more confidence that the economy is now recovering from the recession and the second half of this year will have positive economic growth.  But I expect near-term growth to be insufficient to make much progress on the very weak labor markets.  Most heartening have been clear signals we’re receiving indicating a bottoming out in housing markets.  Like many markets,   Boston has seen some increases in housing pricing, particularly for homes that are attractive to buyers looking to use the government’s first-time homebuyer tax credit. The disinflation that the Greenbook has been forecasting is being borne out by the data.  Core PCE inflation for the past year is 1.4 percent, significantly below the previous year and well below where most of us expect the inflation rate to settle in the longer run.  According to the Survey of Professional Forecasters, the mean probability that the core PCE inflation is below 1½ percent in 2010 is 50 percent, with only a 12 percent mean probability attached to a core PCE inflation exceeding 2.4 percent. While some market analysts cite the expansion of the Federal Reserve balance sheet as being inflationary, I do not believe that this poses much of a short-run risk. While we do not have recent historical experience in the United States with the effect of rapid growth in the central bank balance sheet, the experience in Japan is instructive.  Even with their substantial quantitative easing program, the Bank of Japan has been fighting deflation rather than inflation for the past decade.  Despite the rapid growth in bank reserves in Japan, the banking system was shrinking as banks reduced lending to satisfy capital constraints.  It seems unlikely that the expansion of the Federal Reserve balance sheet will have near-term inflationary implications for reasons similar to those in Japan.  Despite the buildup in U.S. bank reserves, bank lending remains constrained and is likely to be capital constrained for some time.  Thus, like the Greenbook, I expect that lower labor costs and the substantial slack in the economy will continue to generate disinflation, and, thus, over the next two years, we will likely be moving further below my inflation target of 2 percent.  Discussions with bankers in New England are consistent with the data showing continuing significant declines in lending.  Their biggest concern is with commercial real estate loans, where falling prices are making banks increasingly reluctant to lend.  One very large   builder highlighted the fact that, although construction costs and the costs of labor have declined, those cost reductions have not kept pace with the fall in prices of existing buildings.  Bankers are concerned with how commercial real estate loans will be treated at their next exam.  The mounting commercial real estate problems, along with nonperforming loans that are growing faster than reserves at many banks, make it increasingly unlikely that we will see much improvement in credit availability from banks in the coming year. While the real economy is improving, the robustness of private-sector growth once the government programs wind down is still uncertain and poses additional downside risk.  More importantly, the unemployment rate is likely to remain uncomfortably high and inflation well below my target for the next several years.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing information and expressing their own beliefs and expectations.


Passage number 273.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This statement simply expresses gratitude towards President Fisher. There is no indication of any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 274.
 MR. FISHER. Mr. Chairman, in the Eleventh District, retail sales remain anemic.  Weakness in energy due to lower natural gas prices continues to be a drag on the Texas, New Mexico, and Louisiana economies, and commercial real estate remains mired in significant distress.  But there are some positive numbers that have been reported.  Private-sector jobs grew in July, and then pulled back a little bit in August.  Initial unemployment claims continued to decline. There are signs of improvement in the temporary staffing market.  Reflecting the activity that Nathan reported, exports—and Texas is the largest exporting state—rose in July for the second consecutive month; they’re up slightly in Q2.  Existing home sales are up through July. There’s actually a slight pickup in home construction as new home inventory levels stabilize. And we have a leading index that was up on all components, making positive contributions at the last measurement.   Now, realizing that it may not be the case that “as goes Texas, so goes the galaxy” or “so goes the globe,” still, there are some glimpses of sunlight that come through from our anecdotal soundings and from the CEOs that I have talked to—the list of which I provide you before every meeting, Mr. Chairman.  Distillate consumption, which is strongly correlated with industrial activity, has picked up at least slightly.  And I note that electricity generation is also up slightly, which is a positive.  On the consumer side, Mastercard’s internal data were positive in terms of sales activity for the week of September 7, for the first time since October 30, 2008.  The broadcasters report that advertising is creeping back up.  In part, this is Ed Whitacre’s ego. There’s also political advertising on health care, but, more generally, it’s getting away from the trial lawyers and the lesser advertisers that we have seen and moving toward more general, normal, economic activity.  The semiconductors report a pickup in demand, which I find quite interesting. According to Texas Instruments, for example, in the first quarter customers actually reduced their original orders by 7 percent.  In the second quarter, they shipped 31 percent over their original order base, which indicates a rush to cover either inventory shortfalls or perhaps demand—they’re not sure which.  And, as of last night, their shipments in the third quarter are exceeding the original orders by 29 percent.  And, lastly, an odd positive to the recession, is that Wal-Mart reports that pilferage or internal theft is down 20 percent for fear of people losing their jobs. Despite those positive indicators and the aggregate data which we have heard presented by others and at this table, I would summarize the mood of my interlocutors as being wary of the purported recovery. They see some improvement in the statistics that they read about elsewhere, but, based on their own experience, they doubt them.  Some cotton to our outlook at the Dallas Fed, which is for a checkmark-shaped recovery, with less growth, as President Lockhart pointed  out, in 2010 and 2011 than the staff are forecasting here at the Board.  But I heard from more than I hoped that they’re managing for what I would call a W-shaped recovery.  And if they’re wrong, they’ll be relieved. More than once I heard what I consider a new management bias described as being based on “process improvement” or “cost take-out” or “margin repair.”  This is the kind of nomenclature that now is ubiquitous amongst McKinsey and Bain consultants, who up until last summer were flogging techniques to enhance top-line improvement through pricing power. Our own measure at the Dallas Fed of global capacity utilization shows record lows.  It indicates that for some time incremental demand will be met by utilizing a greater share of existing capital rather than investing in new equipment or buildings.  And I can’t find a single sector where a leading CEO is budgeting to do anything other than to contain costs and only commit to vital and minimal cap ex in 2010. So, Mr. Chairman, that’s how it looks from a microeconomic perch.  It’s undoubtedly imperfect, but I think it’s illustrative.  There’s a disconnect between the way that the women and men who are managing the businesses of the United States view the economy and the aggregate data. And I don’t know how we will join that disconnect, but it’s clearly there.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing a summary of various positive indicators and anecdotal evidence, but also acknowledges that there is a disconnect between these indicators and the overall data.


Passage number 275.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 276.
 What’s the difference between a checkmark recovery and a V recovery? MR. FISHER. The slope of the right side, from my perspective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 277.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I see.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the statement "I see." This is a simple observation or acknowledgement without any conflicting views or opinions.


Passage number 278.
 MR. FISHER. It’s a Nike swoosh. [Laughter]  This actually goes to the point that President Plosser made, and I’m going to take advantage of your question.  Of course. Thank  you for asking. We are eliminating a lot of negatives, as President Plosser said.  We’re beginning to accentuate some positives.  We do have a snapback.  We had a very sharp decline.  The question is the rate of growth going forward.  And given the way businesses are managing and structuring their budgets going forward, the way they are wringing productivity—I think those are your words, Dave —out of their workers, I expect that final demand will be somewhat anemic.  So it’s not a sharp V. And going further out, after you come through the check on the checkmark, I expect a slower rate of growth.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

In this passage, there is no contention or disagreement being expressed. The speaker is simply explaining their perspective on the rate of economic growth going forward.


Passage number 279.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. You don’t go with a square root sign, though.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of fact or instruction.


Passage number 280.
  [Laughter] MR. FISHER. I have been informed it’s something that I fear.  Actually, Mr. Chairman, I think this is a problem.  Our tail risks are almost undefinable.  We could have that.  We could also have the kind of explosive growth that Dave was talking about earlier.  And I would like to hear, as you know, more decision tree analysis as to how we would respond from a policy perspective under all three scenarios.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their concerns and requesting more information and analysis.


Passage number 281.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not contain any information about a contention or disagreement. It simply mentions "President Bullard" without any further context.


Passage number 282.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thanks. On state contingency, I think I should just raise the possibility of corner solutions.  If you have a constraint, you could be up against that constraint—it wouldn’t be state contingent in that case.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their opinion or suggestion regarding the concept of state contingency and raising the possibility of corner solutions. There is no conflict or contradiction present.


Passage number 283.
  Although we want to talk about future policy, and so on, but in terms of your actual instrument— MR. BULLARD.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 284.
 Do you mean that we’re at the zero bound? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, for example.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Title: Climate Change and Human Activity

Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. 

Explanation: The passage discusses the relationship between climate change and human activity. The topic of climate change is often a subject of debate and differing viewpoints. Different individuals or groups may have differing opinions on the causes, extent, and impact of human activity on climate change. This disagreement leads to a contentious atmosphere surrounding the issue.


Passage number 285.
 MR. BULLARD. Definitely at the zero bound.  We’ve got other policies, though.  We could tell markets how we’re going to adjust.  Let’s suppose we get bad news in the January– February–March period, and the economy didn’t turn out the way we had hoped.  Markets would like to know now, if we got in that situation, how we’d react.  And I just don’t think we’re ready to tell them, but we’d like to be able to tell them as part of an optimal policy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing a potential policy option and expressing their belief that they are not currently prepared to implement it.


Passage number 286.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 287.
 MR. FISHER. That’s a more eloquent way of stating what I was referring to earlier—or, at least, if not stating it, understanding internally how we would respond under different circumstances.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply restating and clarifying a point they made earlier.


Passage number 288.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. Thank you. President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple expression of gratitude towards President Evans.


Passage number 289.
  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We all have to make sacrifices.  [Laughter] President Yellen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple statement followed by a laughter, which suggests a lighthearted tone.


Passage number 290.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. I should just say that for the December meeting, the current plan is to have a presentation—by Reserve Banks, I guess—on inflation dynamics.  So we’ll try to bring back the “continuing education” aspect of this meeting. We’re well into the 6:00 hour. Thank you, everyone.  Why don’t we adjourn until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.  There’s a reception and a dinner, but no business—it’s an optional dinner for your convenience.  So I’ll see you at 9:00.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing information about the agenda for the December meeting, including a presentation on inflation dynamics and the schedule for the next day. The tone is polite and cooperative.


Passage number 291.
 [Meeting recessed]   September 23, 2009—Morning Session CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Good morning, everybody.  I recognize the Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply addressing a group of people and expressing recognition towards the Vice Chairman.


Passage number 292.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you.  I was remiss yesterday in not introducing Angela O’Connor, sitting next to Brian Sack, from the Markets group.  So I apologize, Angela.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply expressing regret and apologizing for not introducing Angela O'Connor the previous day.


Passage number 293.
 MS. O’CONNOR. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only consists of a statement expressing gratitude and does not include any points of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 294.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Welcome.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: "Welcome" is a word of greeting that does not express or imply disagreement or contention.


Passage number 295.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Welcome.  Good. We can continue with the economic go-round, and I have President Hoenig to lead off.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply introduces President Hoenig as the leader of a discussion on the economic go-round.


Passage number 296.
 MR. HOENIG. Good morning. Thank you. The Tenth District, like the rest of the nation, appears to be climbing its way out of the recession.  We’ve seen some slight improvement in retail sales, our manufacturing index is up above 50, and there’s clearly some improvement in our inventory situation, notably in housing, which has stabilized—in fact, we’re actually seeing some improvement.  Where we continue to struggle is, obviously, with commercial real estate, which is a big issue for us.  Our agricultural sector this year will be down, because prices are down, primarily for bumper crops.  Also, our labor markets are stable, they’re not improving. They may show some uptick, but very little, we suspect, as the economy and the region has settled out. Even our energy sector, which has been in the doldrums—as President Fisher said, because we produce a lot of natural gas—has at least stabilized for now.  So we’re working our way out, and, I would say, in a manner similar to that for the nation as a whole. When we consider the nation and the outlook, I think that we are in recovery.  There are signs, in our region and elsewhere, of self-correcting mechanisms—the runoff in inventories, the rebuilding, manufacturing picking up.  Some of that is self-sustaining, hopefully, and will move us forward. As we’ve started this recovery, and as we look forward, there continues to be enormous stimulus that is yet to play out, both fiscal stimulus that is under way and will go through 2010 and monetary stimulus as well.  And I think that’s very important to keep in mind as we look ahead. As we anticipate inflation and issues like that, I think it’s also important to remember that we do need to look many quarters ahead, because everything that’s happening today reflects steps we were involved in several quarters ago, or at least in the spring.  In that regard, I think we face a challenge looking at the immediate recovery, sustaining that recovery, and then looking far enough ahead that we don’t introduce new problems for ourselves.  And that’s what I do worry about regarding inflation and other asset issues that might come up. We’re going to be in a position of trying, as you say, to bring our monetary policy to a more neutral level in those quarters.  It’s going to take a long time to do that.  And we’ll be using instruments we’ve never used before—that means there’s going to be slippage, and that means there are going to be mistakes.  Anticipating the next discussion a little bit, as we think about first quarter, when I think there is a good chance the recovery will be sustained, I cannot help but wonder if one of our most important tools—and there is risk with every choice we make—is to do nothing in terms of buying assets that we would then almost immediately have to sterilize. On the matter of excess capacity, of course, we are just starting the recovery, so there is excess capacity. For example, a while ago, if you took a railroad in my part of the world and you asked the CEO about capacity, he’d have told you that he had cars parked that would just about cross the state of Kansas—and for those of you who don’t know Kansas, that’s a long way.  [Laughter] More recently, though, his parked cars stretch only as far as Great Bend, Kansas—  and for those of you who don’t know Kansas, that’s still a long way, but less so.  So the capacity is being worked off, and that’s the process that’s under way.  So we have to be thinking about when the capacity will be used up compared with when our monetary policy will be in a more neutral position. Those are the hard choices I think we have, and that’s why I am worried about our timing in terms of purchasing assets and continuing on that path.  So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing an overview of the current economic situation in the Tenth District and expressing their concerns and considerations for the future.


Passage number 297.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Pianalto.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement is a straightforward expression of gratitude towards President Pianalto.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 298.
 MS. PIANALTO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My business contacts in the Fourth District continue to be wary about developments in the economy.  While most businesses reported incremental gains in their output levels earlier this summer, many have already seen a tapering off of those gains. Other contacts reported that orders are fluctuating with no discernible trend. Overall, I would characterize the predominant mood of the business executives I speak with as uncertain and cautious. One of the reasons there is so much uncertainty is that the improvements that we have seen in the critical industries appear to be tied to short-term stimulus programs.  District auto sales got a clear boost from the “cash-for-clunkers” program, and auto production plans have now been increased for both the third and fourth quarters.  There is also no question that there have been ripple effects through the supply chain all the way back to orders for steel.  This increased production in autos and industries related to autos was critical to the stabilization in the Fourth District output that we reported in the latest Beige Book. But the limited gains in the industrial sector to date do lead me to think that this recovery is very fragile. Underscoring the fragility is the uncertainty about just how sustainable the demand for car sales will be into and beyond the fourth quarter.  For similar reasons, my contacts  in the real estate industry are concerned that sales may decline once the first-time homebuyer tax credit expires on December 1. They certainly aren’t complaining about the support, which is drawing in new homebuyers, yet they also report that an unusual number of sellers are renting rather than purchasing move-up houses.  One real estate executive said that, traditionally, four out of five sales are to move-up buyers, whereas he is only seeing two out of five sales to move-up buyers in the current market.  The lack of move-up purchasing has limited the impact of the first-time homebuyer programs, and move-up purchasing is going to be critical once the first-time homebuyer incentives are exhausted.  Again, the economy’s fragility is partly hidden by incentives, which, in this case, are scheduled to roll off later this year. Concerns such as these weighed on my outlook for economic growth, particularly in the fourth quarter. I anticipate a gradual and bumpy recovery.  My outlook does not have sustained above-trend growth until the second half of 2010, with the unemployment rate topping off at just over 10 percent early next year. Turning to inflation, two pieces of research done by my staff helped to guide my outlook.  The first is a model of inflation expectations that does not rely on TIPS to estimate inflation expectations. Instead, the model combines inflation data, nominal bond rates, survey measures of inflation expectations, and inflation swaps to construct estimates of expected inflation.  This model shows that inflation expectations remain stable from two to ten years out.  Second, my staff, along with the staff at the Atlanta Fed, has been examining the detailed price data by splitting the consumer price index market basket according to whether prices of goods and services are sticky or flexible.  The stickier prices appear to be a particularly informative measure of core inflation, in that they more reliably predict future inflation.  Our staff analysis   shows that the inflation rate of the goods and services with stickier prices has shifted sharply lower this year. This trend points to suppressed inflation rates for the next few quarters. These results point to some crosscurrents I see in putting together an inflation projection.  In the near term, resource slack is likely to depress core inflation numbers, while over the medium term, monetary and fiscal policies and stable inflation expectations should support an inflation trajectory toward 2 percent.  Specifically, I expect core PCE inflation to dip below 1½ percent in 2010, but to increase gradually toward 2 percent in 2011. Overall, the risks to my inflation outlook remain balanced.  Regarding the risks to my outlook for economic growth, though, I think I appear to be in the small minority, because I still see the risks to growth to the downside. I am concerned that the gains that we have seen recently in the real economy are limited and are potentially just temporary reflections of the policy actions undertaken earlier this year.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker expresses concern and uncertainty about the current state of the economy, including limited gains in the industrial sector, the potential decline in home sales after the expiration of the first-time homebuyer tax credit, and the fragility of the recovery. They also mention that their outlook for economic growth is more pessimistic than others.


Passage number 299.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  First Vice President Lyon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple expression of gratitude towards First Vice President Lyon.


Passage number 300.
 MR. LYON. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Let me first address the District outlook.  Consistent with the incoming national data, the Ninth District economy is showing some signs of improvement.  For instance, survey data indicate that manufacturing activity in the Dakotas has increased and has remained steady in Minnesota.  We are seeing a modest, but nevertheless perceptible, increase in anecdotal reports of businesses’ plans to expand production.  Activity in the energy and mining sectors of the District economy is also showing a slight increase.  Exploration activity is up somewhat, and there are scattered reports of plans to restart idle production and expand facilities. For example, a large iron ore mine in northern Minnesota has resumed production.  The health-care sector appears to have weathered the recession relatively well. Residential construction activity appears to have stabilized, albeit at low levels.  While the  results vary across the District, we are now seeing some improvement in the level of home sales in various metropolitan areas. Commercial real estate, in contrast, continues to be weak.  Commercial real estate markets have been depressed by a combination of lower economic activity, rising vacancy rates, tighter credit conditions, and rapidly falling property values.  On the flip side, lower rental rates should help the profitability of businesses that need space. Despite the recent improvement in the national data, District consumer spending has been soft, with the exception of auto sales, which have been buoyed by the “cash-for-clunkers” program.  Anecdotal reports on same-store retail sales indicate declines of 4 to 8 percent compared with a year ago.  Across the District, our contacts report that while the number of tourists has increased, the level of tourism-related spending remains somewhat soft relative to prior norms.  In agriculture, crop development is about two weeks behind normal due to late planting and a cool summer.  An early frost could significantly reduce production, which would negatively affect food processors, ethanol plants, and ranchers.  Unemployment levels across the District, from Minnesota to Montana, remain low compared with the national average, with the most recent readings from 4.3 percent in North Dakota to 8 percent in Minnesota. Turning to the national economy, most of the incoming data remain consistent with our forecast of a near-term increase in output and subdued inflation.  A reduction in the rate of business inventory liquidation, firming of consumer spending, and some growth in federal spending should support the resumption of economic growth during the remainder of the year.  Developments since the last meeting have served to reinforce this view.  The August uptick in retail sales, data on orders and shipments of capital goods, business sentiment, and the rise in sales and starts of single-family homes, are all consistent with improvement in the level of   economic activity.  The gradual reduction of the adverse impacts of declines in wealth should also support a rise in consumer spending. As President Stern noted in August, our forecast in recent months has been for a bit more rapid growth than in the prior Greenbook. Given the markup in the Greenbook forecast since the last meeting, our forecast and that of the Greenbook are now more closely aligned.  While the outlook has improved since the last meeting, in my view the principal risks to our forecast are to the downside. Going forward, the expiration of some of the government programs that have been providing support to the economy creates uncertainty in the outlook.  Moreover, beyond the third quarter, the ongoing weakness in labor markets, particularly the very low rate of gross hiring by private firms, raises questions about where household earnings growth will come from and where workers, who are no longer building houses, strip malls, and SUVs, will be reemployed.  Prolonged uncertainty about job prospects and tight consumer credit markets could lead consumers to reverse course and cut spending this year or next, and this, in turn, could feed another round of production and inventory cuts.  While I believe that these risks can be avoided, I will feel significantly more confident in this view with a few more months of positive developments. Consistent with the Greenbook forecast, I expect improvements in employment will be gradual, and I believe that this is the inevitable byproduct of a necessary process of resource reallocation.  As such, I believe that, at least to some extent, we must be prepared simply to allow this process to unfold, recognizing that it may not be particularly responsive to incremental additional stimulus.  Despite the improved outlook for economic activity, I expect inflation expectations to remain well anchored and agree with the Greenbook forecast that inflation will remain within acceptable bounds.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily provides an overview of the current state of the District and national economy, as well as the speaker's beliefs about the future outlook.


Passage number 301.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The statement "Thank you. Vice Chairman" is a simple expression of gratitude.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 302.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  The economy is clearly doing better.  All indications are that we will have a pretty strong bounce in activity during the second half of the year—3+ percent annualized real GDP growth seems likely, and the risks over the near term are probably to the upside, I think, of the Greenbook forecast, because inventory cycles can be very powerful. That said, I still think it is very premature to declare victory for several reasons.  First, a good portion of the growth will come from the swing in the pace of inventory accumulation rather than strength in final demand.  Second, the banking system is still impaired.  Bank credit outstanding has been declining. Small businesses and commercial real estate sectors are particularly starved for credit, and that is likely to continue for some time.  Third, payrolls are still falling, and the unemployment rate is still rising.  Fourth, we don’t know how households will respond to the sharp drop in net worth at a time that household debt burdens remain high.  I can imagine a combination of higher household saving and increased labor market participation as baby boomers postpone retirement.  The first would damp demand; the second would raise the amount of slack in the labor market.  Fifth, we are already in the process of removing accommodation—the purchase programs are going to move to the slower pace, the liquidity programs are being gradually unwound, and other government support to the financial sector, such as the money market fund guarantees and the TLGP, are being withdrawn. At a time when the unemployment rate is very high and is still rising, and when there is ample slack in the economy, I think we want to be cautious in moving too quickly to take back additional accommodation. What we want is a robust recovery that pushes the unemployment rate down quickly—that’s what we are going for. That doesn’t seem to be in the cards.  Nothingthat I’ve heard around the table suggests that that’s the expectation of the members of the Committee. Until we actually see that robust recovery, I think we’re getting well ahead of ourselves in talking about removing additional accommodation.  Although some are worried about the longer-term inflation outlook, over the next year or two, to me, the risks seem very much on the downside: Core services inflation has come down a lot; core goods inflation seems likely to follow, given the large amount of excess capacity available in the U.S. and abroad; we’re already below a rate of core inflation consistent with our longer-term forecast for the core PCE deflator; and core inflation typically falls during the early stages of recovery.  In fact, if the recovery were to turn out to be more robust than expected, I would expect that would lead to a further surprise on the productivity front and potentially even more downward pressure on inflation over the next year or two. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The author argues that although the economy is doing better, it is still premature to declare victory due to several reasons, such as the swing in the pace of inventory accumulation rather than strength in final demand, the impaired banking system, falling payrolls and rising unemployment, and uncertainty about household response to the drop in net worth. The author also cautions against moving too quickly to remove additional accommodation and expresses concern that the risks to inflation seem to be on the downside.


Passage number 303.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Kohn.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The given passage does not contain any statement or argument that suggests contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude towards Governor Kohn.


Passage number 304.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Warsh.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only consists of the phrase "Thank you. Governor Warsh," which does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a polite expression of gratitude towards Governor Warsh.


Passage number 305.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Duke.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The statement is a simple expression of gratitude addressed to Governor Duke.


Passage number 306.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a simple expression of gratitude towards Governor Tarullo.


Passage number 307.
 MR. TARULLO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Back in my accustomed spot at the end of the queue, I thought the one criterion for deciding what to say might be to offer only my insights that will add value to what has already been said.  Mr. Chairman, that concludes my statement.  [Laughter] Understanding, however, that another purpose of the go-round might be to explain each member’s views to the Committee as a whole, let me note a few points that most inform my outlook. First, the employment situation continues to be dismal.  Scan the monthly BLS release, and the only demographic group whose unemployment rate looks less than disheartening is that for college graduates at 4.7 percent. A look behind even that figure gives little reason for comfort, insofar as it stood at 2.7 percent just a year ago.  Most of the rest of the numbers are downright discouraging. Of greater relevance, perhaps, for present purposes is the near unanimity of forecasters that improvement in the labor market will be painfully slow.  The most optimistic alternative Greenbook scenario has the unemployment rate barely breaking 7 percent at the end of 2011. A review of the latest Blue Chip economic indicators reveals that all but one of the 50 forecasters believe the average unemployment rate in 2010 will come in above 9 percent. To say that we are nowhere near achieving the maximum employment component of our dual mandate would be a major understatement.  The most that can fairly be said is that the bottoming of negative employment trends may at some point soon be coming into view. Second, in looking back at my statement at the last meeting, I would have to amend my view that GDP growth in the second half of 2009 will perhaps be quite positive to an expectation   that it will almost surely be quite positive with a good chance of being modestly above trend.  But I see little to change my view of six weeks ago that 2010 is most likely to witness what I termed the “grind it out” scenario, with economic growth ultimately above trend but nowhere near the slope of recovery one might expect out of a deep recession.   Indeed, there remains good reason to believe that one or more factors will keep the economic road sufficiently rocky that we will have difficulty sustaining a good head of steam.  Continuing high unemployment will impose a constraint on PCE growth.  A higher personal saving rate than the 4 percent, expected by the Greenbook to remain unchanged for the next two years, would similarly drag down PCE growth.  The fading of the stimulus package by the middle of 2010 creates further uncertainty as to just how robust consumer demand will be and, thus, how much production will grow once inventory drawdowns are completed.  The prospect of ongoing high levels of home foreclosures suggests that downward pressure on the housing market may not fully abate for some time.  Finally, the ongoing steep decline in bank lending, like the continuing dysfunction in some other parts of credit markets, appears to reflect something more than just the tightened lending standards associated with recessions. In the interest of completeness, I should note that prospects for a stronger global recovery have brightened considerably, one of the factors I suggested that might support my rejuvenation scenario here at home.  Asia, in particular, seems to have generated enough momentum to outlast the withdrawal of extraordinary stimulus. Still, I would note that in China and most other East Asian countries, we haven’t yet seen the emergence of a real promise of self-sustaining final consumer demand. If some of the preceding sounds familiar, it should.  I lifted a good bit of it from my comments at the August FOMC. The intervening month and a half has reinforced the positivesigns for the remainder of this year and, I would say, slightly rebalanced in a more optimistic direction the respective probabilities of relapse, “grind it out,” or rejuvenation.  But all three remain plausible outcomes.  In sum, I find myself singing much the same tune as last time, but even as I reprise my coda, I want to alter it a bit, adding some lyrics suggested by President Bullard’s remarks yesterday afternoon.  And here I’m going to take advantage of my holding down the sixteenth spot in the batting order to slide a little bit into relevant policy considerations.  I stand by my August recommendation of patience during this period where the probabilities of each of my three scenarios remain significant.  The additional thought, picking up on President Bullard’s comment, is that we should be prepared to undertake an appropriate policy response no matter which of the three emerges as reality. As the rest of you will have quickly concluded, my own concern is specifically that we not regard the possible conclusion of the current large-scale asset-purchase programs as in itself raising the hurdle rate on future policy initiatives in the event that relapse seems to be occurring.  It’s important in my view that we be clear on this point among ourselves and that we communicate it to markets and the public.  Thank you, Mr.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 308.
 MR. LACKER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I just wanted to make a comment about slack, since that’s gotten a lot of commentary in past meetings from this end of the table.  I don’t think anyone disputes the correlations you can find in the data or the correlations you get from the mainstream models we have.  I think the question is:  What’s the structural link?  To talk about correlations between inflation and measures of slack without talking about monetary policy is like talking about Hamlet without the Prince. I think the point some of us would make is that you cannot rely on slack by itself. The correlation you see is sort of an endogenous interaction. I know you all understand this, but I’m just responding to the sense of puzzlement  4 The materials used by Mr. Madigan are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). about what people who have talked about slack and potential output and inflation have in mind.  I’m just speaking for myself here.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 309.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. It’s a good point, but I guess my quick reaction would be that if you look at these recession episodes I just described, the role of monetary policy in those has varied quite a bit. Some of them earlier on were essentially caused by tight monetary policy, others much less so.  So I think the commonality would be an aggregate demand effect.  But, again, I’d be the first to agree that none of us has a really definitive, strong model of inflation, although for what it’s worth, I think the reviews of the Greenbook have shown better success in forecasting inflation and output. I think that’s the academic result.  But, and I say this with all due respect to our colleagues who are doing the very best that anyone can do, neither one is incredibly successful beyond a few quarters. Anything else?  (No response.) Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is acknowledging different viewpoints and admitting the lack of a definitive model for inflation and forecasting.


Passage number 310.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, Brian. Are there questions for Brian?  (No response.) I understand coffee is ready. We could have coffee now so that we don’t break up the go-round. So we’ll take 20 minutes for coffee.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a polite and cooperative exchange where the speaker thanks Brian, asks if there are any questions, acknowledges that there are none, and suggests taking a break for coffee.


Passage number 311.
 [Coffee break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. Why don’t we recommence and begin the policy go-round with President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 312.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 313.
 MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B. The Greenbook forecasts disinflation and high unemployment rates over the next two years.  I agree with this forecast. These outcomes occur with an assumption that the federal funds rate will remain at exceptionally low levels for an extended period of time, so I am very comfortable continuing to say that in the statement. In terms of the LSAP program, we should purchase the entire $1¼ trillion in mortgage-backed securities. We should also taper the program, though I would prefer to leave the completion date flexible depending on market conditions.  I have a strong preference not to end the program prematurely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses support for alternative B, agrees with the forecast of disinflation and high unemployment rates, and expresses comfort with the statement's inclusion of the assumption of low federal funds rates. The speaker also supports purchasing the entire $1¼ trillion in mortgage-backed securities and tapering the LSAP program, but with a preference for a flexible completion date based on market conditions. Finally, the speaker expresses a strong preference not to end the program prematurely.


Passage number 314.
 I agree with Presidents Evans and Yeltsin—Yellen—[Laughter] MR. FISHER. I’ve gone drinking with Janet.  She’s no Yeltsin.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 315.
  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. The last two minutes will be struck.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the statement "Okay. The last two minutes will be struck." It is a simple statement of agreement or confirmation.


Passage number 316.
  [Laughter] MR. ROSENGREN. Continuing with my statement, that persistently high unemployment is likely to result in low and falling inflation.  This suggests that we will need to maintain an accommodative stance for some time to come.  We have only tentative signs of a recovery at this point, and we should not take actions that risk reversing these initial positive signs. I, too, have a couple of comments on the language.  I would remove “up to” for two reasons. Not completing the $1¼ trillion purchase will signal that we are content with the path where inflation is below my target and the unemployment rate is above my target through the forecast horizon.  I do not want to send such a signal.  Second, housing is improving.  However, the first-time homebuyer tax incentive is ending at the end of November, and I would not want our support for housing to end at the same time.  I would also change the sentence on tapering to remove the last clause and instead say, “The Committee will gradually slow the pace of its purchases in order to promote a smooth transition in markets.”  This would provide flexibility in tapering and highlight our goal of ensuring a smooth transition.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of the speaker expressing their perspective and making suggestions for language changes.


Passage number 317.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is not possible to determine if there is contention or disagreement in the passage provided, as the passage only consists of the phrase "Thank you. President Lacker."


Passage number 318.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I just wasn’t quite clear on your last point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 319.
  What was your preferred language for the end of that sentence? MR. LACKER. Well, if we’re going to do “second quarter,” it should be “by the second quarter” or “by the end of the second quarter,” rather than “in the second quarter,” which implies we get all the way there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It simply suggests a different phrasing or wording to accurately convey the intended meaning.


Passage number 320.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I see. Okay. Thank you. President Yellen.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply acknowledging and expressing gratitude towards President Yellen.


Passage number 321.
 MS. YELLEN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I can support alternative B today, but I do so reluctantly. I think our asset purchases, especially our MBS purchases, have been successful in lowering longer-term borrowing costs and supporting the housing sector and the broader economy.  In addition, I believe our toolkit to remove accommodation when the time comes is ample.  That said, I agree that further expansion of our MBS program entails some risks and possible costs along with the benefits. Given the improvement in the economic outlook and in financial conditions since our last meeting, I’m not prepared to argue for an expansion of the program today.  But I strongly agree with Vice Chairman Dudley and President Rosengren that we need to complete the full $1¼ trillion in MBS purchases that markets now anticipate, and I’d like to do so in a manner that is least disruptive to the mortgage market.  I, therefore, favor striking the words “up to” in alternative B. Curtailing our purchases at this late stage in the program would likely push up mortgage rates, and I believe it would be taken as a signal of an earlier exit from near-zero interest rates than markets now consider likely.   In addition to removing the words “up to,” I would like to soften some of the language concerning the timing and completion of the program.  And, following President Rosengren’s suggestion, I think we don’t need to announce a definite end date for the program at all, and I would support his suggestion. This would give added flexibility, I think, to the Desk in gearing the timing of the phasedown to evolving marketing conditions.  If we do end up giving a time frame—Q1 or Q2—I would like to propose that we substitute the word “executed” for “completed” in paragraph 3 of alternative B, in other words, to say that we anticipate that they will be executed by, say, the end of the first quarter, or however that’s decided.  I think that substitution subtly distinguishes our characterization of the Treasury program, where we use the term “completed,” from our MBS purchases.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 322.
  I believe that leaves the door slightly more open to ramping up the pace of our purchases again, if the recovery does end up suffering a significant setback and we face—Governor Tarullo, what was the name you gave the scenario?— MR. TARULLO. Relapse.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: I'm sorry, but you haven't provided a passage for me to analyze. Could you please provide the passage or more context?


Passage number 323.
 MS. YELLEN. —a relapse scenario. In that event, the balance of costs and benefits of further MBS purchases could reverse. So I do not want further expansion of MBS purchases or other initiatives to be entirely off the table.   Although I can agree to leave the size of our MBS program at $1¼ trillion today, I see a strong case on policy grounds for further monetary stimulus.  Core inflation is currently below my price stability goal of about 2 percent, and the unemployment rate is well above my full employment goal of about 5 percent.  I anticipate a tepid recovery, but even if the recovery is somewhat more robust, this situation will persist for many years. I am pretty sure that, if it were possible, we would at this point have taken the federal funds rate into negative territory. That would be consistent with our historical behavior, with  optimal policy calculations, such as those reported in the Bluebook, and with the guidance of most policy rules. Unfortunately, so far this year, the nominal funds rate has been fixed near zero while core inflation has fallen. So the real funds rate has risen.  In this sense, monetary policy has actually tightened this year, although circumstances—namely, the increase in unemployment and decline in core inflation—seem to call for more monetary stimulus.  Even taking account of our large-scale asset purchases, I think the effective degree of easing, given the dislocation in financial markets, likely has been modest relative to past recessions. I agree with President Plosser that communications are a logical device to use, and I think the most obvious way to provide additional stimulus without further balance sheet expansion is to use language designed to bring market expectations of the funds rate path into closer alignment with the Greenbook path, thereby lowering medium-term rates.  Market expectations concerning the likely path of the funds rate have come down over the intermeeting period, but there is still a gap between market expectations and the Greenbook path, which coincides with my own preferred path. To help narrow that gap, I propose replacing the language in paragraph 3 of alternative B with the language in paragraph 3 of alternative A.  Specifically, I would replace the vague phase “Economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period” with the alternative phrasing stating that “The Committee anticipates that low resource utilization and subdued inflation are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels….”  This language would indicate to markets that the FOMC will not raise rates merely on the basis of strong economic growth if, in fact, we are nowhere near maximum sustainable levels of employment and activity and if inflation is subdued.  It would provide a conditional statement that would usefully inform the expectations of financial market participants.  I know that this phrasing will not appeal to those members of the Committee whoreject the notion that slack influences inflation.  But it is consistent with the language of B that already embraces the logic of such a linkage.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Yellen, is presenting her views and proposals on monetary policy and is not in direct disagreement with anyone.


Passage number 324.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Kohn.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any content or context that suggests contention or disagreement.


Passage number 325.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not include any contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude towards President Bullard.


Passage number 326.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. So, President Bullard, you said that you wanted to retain “up to.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: The passage does not contain any clear indication of contention or disagreement. It simply presents a statement made by President Bullard without any opposing views or conflicting opinions being mentioned.


Passage number 327.
” Did you have a thought on the next sentence about the tapering that would fit with your proposal? MR. BULLARD.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 328.
 Starting with the red part? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 329.
 “The Committee will gradually”—  MR. BULLARD.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage is not presenting any conflicting viewpoints or opposing arguments. It is providing a straightforward statement or information.


Passage number 330.
 “The Committee will gradually slow”— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. It says it will be completed.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no indication of contention or disagreement in the statement. It simply states that something will be completed without any conflicting viewpoints or opinions being expressed.


Passage number 331.
 MR. BULLARD. I would like to leave it more open.  I don’t have exact language.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses their preference for leaving something open and mentions lack of specific language, suggesting a desire for flexibility or lack of clarity, but no opposing views or conflicting opinions are presented.


Passage number 332.
 Was this what you were proposing, President Rosengren? MR. ROSENGREN. I was talking about putting a period after “markets” and taking out the last clause.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation:
The passage does not contain any statements or ideas that would indicate contention or disagreement. It simply discusses the act of putting a period after "markets" and removing the last clause. There is no conflicting opinion or argument being presented.


Passage number 333.
 MR. LACKER. Those seem consistent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The phrase "Those seem consistent" indicates that there is agreement or alignment in the ideas or statements being discussed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 334.
 MR. BULLARD. I wasn’t sure if what he was suggesting was consistent with what I said.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. This passage suggests a potential disagreement or inconsistency between what the speaker initially said and what the other person is suggesting.


Passage number 335.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Rosengren and President Yellen suggested saying “gradually slow the pace of these purchases in order to promote a smooth transition in markets.”  Let me just say now that I think that there’s an important interaction between that decision and the “up to” decision. If we’re going to be unclear about our time frame and unclear about the final amount, those two things together are somewhat concerning.  But that’s one possibility.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing concern about the lack of clarity in the decision regarding the time frame and final amount of the purchases. This does not involve any disagreement or conflict with President Rosengren and President Yellen's suggestion to gradually slow the pace of the purchases.


Passage number 336.
 MR. BULLARD. I guess my thought was just to take it to the second quarter and then, if you wanted to go this direction, you could do so at a future meeting.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not show any sign of contention or disagreement. It suggests a suggestion or idea for future action, but there is no indication of opposing views or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 337.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "Okay. Thank you" is a polite response but it does not indicate any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 338.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Mr. Chairman, a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement. It simply states someone addressing a chairman, indicating that they are about to engage in a two-handed activity.


Passage number 339.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The term "Vice Chairman" does not contain any indication of contention or disagreement. It simply refers to a specific position within a committee or organization.


Passage number 340.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think that I have some sympathy with taking out the “first quarter/second quarter,” but we have to recognize that the Desk has to have instructions on what it actually has to do, so there’s an issue of what their baseline is in terms of their action.  If we take out the language about “first quarter/second   quarter,” there still needs to be an understanding in terms of what is communicated to the Desk, so that at least they know the starting point of the taper trajectory.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing understanding and agreement with potentially removing certain language, but also acknowledging the need for clear instructions to the Desk. There is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 341.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. President Hoenig.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The statement simply expresses gratitude towards President Hoenig.


Passage number 342.
 MR. HOENIG. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As I look at the circumstances that we’re in, I would prefer alternative C.  And I don’t say that lightly, and I don’t say it because I don’t happen to be voting. I don’t have to put it out there—that’s an issue sometimes. I think it’s important that we look at the stance of policy, and we’re in a very accommodative stance today.  And looking ahead to 2010, 2011, 2012, we’re still going to have a reasonably accommodative policy.  I recognize that the short-run costs are always right before us. And I don’t want to stanch this recovery any more than anyone else does, and that is a major concern. I remember, perhaps unfortunately, sitting around worrying about 1 percent inflation in 2002 and 2003, worrying whether we would have deflation, and worrying about short-run issues as we kept rates low for an extended period of time—I think that was our language.  I just want to make sure that we’re thinking about the long-run costs of this much stimulus and of the difficulties we will face ahead in withdrawing it, because we’ve never before used these tools to neutralize this much stimulus.  We have enormous reserves in, and already some of the “chasing yield” has begun with this amount of funds out there and available.  We are taking on not only risk in the short term and on the downside, but, by delaying, we also are taking on longer-term risks, which may seem easier to take on precisely because they are longer term.  So I’m very sensitive to that. I also am very sensitive to the fact that this might surprise the market, and that is a very serious worry. But at some point I think we need to surprise the market, to some degree, and that is why I was so interested in what the basis-point effect on mortgage rates would be as well as  the psychological effect. But I think it’s a risk that we need to take on at this point, because if we don’t announce this now, we will be very close to year-end at our next meeting, and I don’t think we can then say that we’re really pulling this stuff back.  At that point, I think we’d be even more reluctant to do it. So now we can shoot for year-end.  We could tell them we’re not getting out now, and we’re going to move this very carefully towards year-end.  In the long run, I suspect that we’d have—I can’t say better outcomes—reasonable outcomes. There are a couple of other things.  I would push for first quarter—if at all possible.  Also, I’m uneasy with the phrase “extended period,” because it has been such an issue with me in the past. So I’ll end with that. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their preferences and concerns, but there is no direct conflict or argument between different parties.


Passage number 343.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I infer that you want to keep the “up to,” though.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is making an inference about someone else's preference but does not express any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 344.
 MR. HOENIG. “Up to,” yes. [Laughter] Safe bet.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The use of "yes" and laughter indicates agreement or amusement.


Passage number 345.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. That’s what I thought.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states the thoughts of the speaker, acknowledging that they were correct in their initial belief.


Passage number 346.
 MR. LOCKHART. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Like so many others, I’m also going to support alternative B. To me, it’s the stay-the-course alternative at this stage.  So many have said that the recovery is under way but fragile or tentative, so I think it is still appropriate to be cautious about that. And the inflation outlook, in my mind, doesn’t warrant a policy response.  I think there’s a great deal of consensus around the table about the state of the economy and the outlook, so it strikes me that this is really more about the language in the statement and the way we communicate with markets and the public, which is, to some degree, more in the realm of psychology. As I think about that, I certainly believe that paragraph 1 is sufficient to convey an accurate depiction of the economy as it stands today, and I’m comfortable enough with it.  I do think it’s important to convey a commitment that we are going to stay the course, to follow   through. I think the removal of the “up to” language conveys this. I don’t have terribly strong feelings about it, so I’m certainly not going to argue strongly if the consensus is to keep it.  I do think it’s a small change, but it does help build confidence that we’ll follow through with the programs that we have in place.  At this point, I don’t think we want to suggest an itchy trigger finger regarding exit. I have a couple of other comments on the suggested language. Again, I’m a bit ambivalent about the inclusion of the word “wide.”  I think it could generate a lot of speculation about what we mean by it, and I think continuing with the language of simply “a range of tools,” which is a little more measured, is adequate.   There are a lot of language revisions already on the table, and it’s going to be difficult to sort all of them out, so I won’t add to them.  But I would make the final comment that the difference of opinion around the table is more about language than it is about the conditions.   And I agree with your comment, Mr. Chairman, on the need for a nuanced policy.  I’m a little concerned about a too nuanced statement that tries to capture all of those sentiments.  So I tend to prefer much of what’s on the page now and what’s been proposed along with the removal of “up to.” I think that will convey the necessary continuity and follow-through that we want.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker expresses agreement with alternative B and agrees with the need to stay cautious about the recovery and inflation outlook. They also agree with the general consensus about the state of the economy and believe that the differences of opinion are more about language than conditions. There is no obvious contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 347.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply expresses gratitude towards President Fisher.


Passage number 348.
 MR. FISHER. Mr. Chairman, I submitted comments on September 16.  Many of them were incorporated in the statement.  I don’t want to repeat myself.  I assume, Brian, they are somewhere in the record. Someone at the end of the table mentioned Hamlet and the Prince earlier, and it brought to mind the debate over the B-2 bomber, which was B-2 or not B-2, that is the question. [Laughter] It seems to me that what this discussion is all about is “up to” or not “up to,” that is the question. By my count, we have had four in favor of keeping “up to” and four in favor of striking or deleting “up to.”  I’m in favor of keeping “up to,” because I think it gives us maximum flexibility.  I’m in favor of incorporating the phrase “these purchases,” and I would favor President Yellen’s “executed by the end of the first quarter.”  I would strike the word “wide,” because a range is a range.  I don’t think “wide” adds much.  It does probably raise some questions of what other ideas we might have up our sleeves, and it might raise questions that we are not able to answer.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their opinions and preferences but does not engage in any argument or disagreement with others.


Passage number 349.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It is a polite expression of gratitude from someone named President Evans.


Passage number 350.
 MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I favor alternative B.  It seems that this is the most disparate set of commentary I’ve heard on policy alternatives.  It’s a very interesting meeting, and I hope I can add to that spirit.  [Laughter] The economy is beginning the recovery phase. I think the risk profile is better—it’s more balanced.  That doesn’t change the fact that it’s not a very desirable path, as many have pointed out; the unemployment rate is going to remain high for quite some time.  In terms of the inflation outlook, it seems to me that we’re going to be undershooting our implicit objective, in that we’re likely to stay below, I would say, a 1½ percent inflation rate for some period of time.  There is a wide range of risk, as we have said, and, as President Yellen mentioned, by some estimates of the TIPS inflation compensation markets, compensation’s up, and that must mean that the variability in inflation is up, higher or lower. I find that quite interesting. Mr. Chairman, I agree with you that, viewing the balance of the social costs that we are facing, those costs seem a little towards the downside.  With that in mind, looking at paragraph 1, my reaction was different from President Plosser’s and more like Governor Kohn’s   regarding the phrase, “a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability.” This seems to me the only place where we can possibly point out that the unemployment rate will remain high over some period of time.  The only other reference to job loss is with respect to its influence on consumption.  We could change “resource utilization” to something more like “the unemployment rate will gradually decline,” but I’m not anticipating many people would prefer that type of language.  And I view the phrase “in a context of price stability,” as consistent with the observation that inflation is going to remain below 2 percent for a couple of years. We can disagree on that, but that’s how I view that sentence, so I found it to be quite good. In terms of policy, I think we’re responding appropriately according to the circumstances.  Monetary policy is accommodative:  The federal funds rate is about zero, we’ve got our large-scale asset purchase programs, and there’s no real expectation that the funds rate is going to rise in the foreseeable future—nine to twelve months, maybe it will be longer.  I’m sympathetic to the arguments that the current path of the recovery is highly undesirable—we’d like a lower unemployment rate.  But I just think that there are limits to our policy effectiveness.  I think I am different from many of the views expressed here.  Given the limitations I see in our effectiveness at this point, I think we’re at a pretty good position, and I don’t think that we can really do that much more. So I favor alternative B. Having heard some of the comments that you made, Mr. Chairman, and that the Vice Chairman made on our exit tools, at the end of the day, I do trust that our exit tools are going to be sufficient to allow us to embark upon a more restrictive policy when we deem that appropriate.  If we can sell our assets, I think that will work if interest on reserves doesn’t work.  In terms of MBS, here’s where I’ll be different.  I prefer a definitive choice today.  I just don’t see any benefit to postponing what strikes me as the inevitable purchase of $1¼ trillion after listening to everybody around the table.  I would be aghast if we found a way not to do $1¼ trillion. Why not recognize that now, inject a little more certainty into markets on that score?  I think that, if we leave it open, we are going to struggle with this issue later in terms of the rate effect. We don’t fully appreciate why MBS yields are lower.  Is it the stock effect, or is it the flow effect?  Well, there’s an unfortunate aspect to putting a lot of weight on the flow effect—as Brian at one point said, maybe it’s 50–50.  If it’s 50–50, then, when we are done, those rates will go back up, because the flow will no longer be there.  If we have to look higher rates in the eye in the first quarter of next year, I think we’re going to be wringing our hands over it. Now, maybe that’s the right thing.  I don’t have a problem with being definitive now and then saying that circumstances are such that we need to apply more accommodation.  We did that all the time with the funds rate, and I just don’t think that these policies ought to be that different.  So I would prefer a more definitive choice.  Because of that, I guess I’ll make it five and five—I would take out the “up to.” We’ll see how that goes.  I would like to complete it as soon as possible—in the first quarter, and I wouldn’t mind the middle of the first quarter—but that’s a minority view, I’m sure.  I thought that President Plosser’s suggestion on moving the inflation expectations ahead of resource slack was perfectly acceptable, if there was any appetite for that.  Thanks, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own views and opinions but does not directly challenge or argue against any other viewpoints.


Passage number 351.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much.  President Pianalto.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any indication of contention or disagreement. It simply expresses gratitude towards President Pianalto.


Passage number 352.
 MS. PIANALTO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I favor alternative B.  It is good to see more data showing that the economy is on a path to recovery, but, as I noted earlier, the gains have been very limited, and the recovery remains quite fragile.  My view about the direction ofinflation is more balanced. Fortunately, inflation expectations have been a lot more stable than we might have anticipated even a few months ago, when we were concerned that inflation expectations would fall. I attribute this stability at least in part to our communications strategy.  Given the minimal extent of the recovery so far and the very moderate levels of inflation, I believe the continuation of our current accommodative policy is appropriate. Regarding the language in paragraph 3, I support inserting the word “wide” in the first sentence. I also think that we will be purchasing and should be purchasing the entire $1¼ trillion in mortgage-backed securities.  In addition, I think it’s important to be as transparent as we can be, so I would delete the “up to” in front of the $1¼ trillion of agency mortgage-backed securities. I would obviously leave the “up to” in front of the $200 billion in agency debt.  Regarding the language on tapering our purchases, Brian Sacks’s comments and analysis yesterday moved me to support using the “end of the first quarter” language in that section.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses their support for alternative B and their belief that the current accommodative policy is appropriate. They also suggest some changes to the language in the document, but these are not presented as points of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 353.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  First Vice President Lyon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The information provided is a simple expression of gratitude and the mention of First Vice President Lyon.


Passage number 354.
 MR. LYON. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I also favor alternative B.  Although the recent data have generally surprised on the upside, I’m hesitant to place too much emphasis on one or two months’ worth of data.  We have been unpleasantly surprised several times in the last two years, and in part, as a result, I’m disinclined to change policy quite yet. I think that market expectations are particularly important at times like these, and I place a fair amount of weight on the fact that alternative B is most closely aligned with existing market expectations. In this regard, while I prefer the retention of the “up to” language due to its consistency with prior statements, I would not object to the removal of this language. The tapering strategy for the purchases of agency MBS and agency debt specified in alternative B strikes me as prudent and appropriate.  I support ending these purchases in the first quarter of next year. Based on Brian’s presentation yesterday, I don’t see the need or the justification to extend them further. Given that neither inflation nor inflation expectations have increased, worries about the size of our balance sheet seem to me to be premature.  In my view, we have viable exit strategies available that we can implement as conditions warrant.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 355.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Warsh.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. 

The passage simply states "Thank you, Governor Warsh," which seems to indicate a sense of gratitude towards Governor Warsh without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 356.
 MR. WARSH.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’ll support alternative B with some suggestions, but I’ll confine most of my remarks to the mortgage markets.  Let me begin by talking about this odd market dynamic, which, I think, is leading to much of the discussion around the table. The mortgage market strikes me as neither particularly sustainable in its current form nor two-sided, in the sense of matching private parties who meet at some market clearing price. And the blame for that is not even predominantly because of the Federal Reserve’s role in the market.   When I think about the mortgage market ecosystem, I break it into three parts.  The mortgage origination market, even dominated by three or four banks with different degrees of implicit and explicit support, is by far and away the most competitive market in this ecosystem compared with what I’m going to talk about next.  In between the originators and the holders of these portfolios, we have this odd duopoly of government guarantors that are now competing with a new entity, the Federal Housing Administration, all of whom have confused and overlapping objective functions and confused exit regimes.  They can’t say what they’re solving for, whether it’s minimizing draws from Treasury, maximizing the support of Congress, or  minimizing or changing the number of folks that go into foreclosure; the guarantors are in between this bizarre group of mortgage originators and buyers.  And who are the buyers?  Well, the buyers are us, that is, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury Department, and Fannie and Freddie, who have mixed views about whether they’re also going to be portfolio buyers of whole mortgages or mortgage-backed securities.  Taking all this together, I think we shouldn’t be surprised that we’re having a hard time figuring out what the incremental change in spreads would be based on whether we do “up to” or not “up to” at various sizes. All of these pieces are subject to debate.  Markets are trying to figure out who’s going to do what to whom and what the consequences of this bizarre ecosystem are, and noting that this market is not clearing in any effective way.  I would say again that we have participated in but are not predominant in that rather unfavorable diagnosis. In light of that dynamic and what’s in the realm of the possible, we can talk about losses on our portfolio, and we can talk about complications for the exit strategy.  But I think, as one of the prior speakers made clear, that, for the purposes of this discussion, we can stipulate that we can and will figure it out. I have great confidence in that. It strikes me that the central question is:  What can we do to provide whatever help is in the realm of the possible to this targeted mortgage market?  I think it’s likely that, given the uncertainties that we’ve all spoken about regarding the real economy and financial markets in 2010, we’re going to have to provide support as best we can throughout much of the year.  This isn’t support such that we say, “Boy, once we’re done with the first quarter, all will be rosy thereafter.” As a way to frame what the operative choices are in front of us, I ask myself:  What is most conducive to bringing private buyers back into this confused market in as seamless a way as possible?  Now, we shouldn’t be surprised that markets want more.  Again, I said this with Treasuries, and it’s equally true here because we’re doing more.  They want more purchases, more certainty, more commitment, and I think that that is as expected.  What should we want?  I think we should be solving for bringing real investors back into this market to give it any chance of pricing mortgages at rates that are conducive to recovery.  So I think that brings us to the operative questions mostly in paragraph 3. With respect to the “up to” language, I learned from one of you that, in the academy, they say the debates are so angry because the stakes are so small.  I think that’s true on the “up to” language here. Markets expect we’re going to do $1.25 trillion.  If we leave “up to” in there, they’re going to expect it, and if we take it out, they expect it, so I can’t get all that energized over where to cast my vote in this very close call.  Because they already expect we’re going to do the whole thing and because we are reasonably comfortable with the progress from the last FOMC meeting to this one, I would have a mild preference for leaving “up to” in there, and I think that the differences in market practicality here are really quite small. What about the timing?  When should we end this or complete this exercise?  I am generally in the category of flexibility, given these uncertainties, but taken to its extreme, I think the flexibility would give not only the Desk some concerns about what exactly they’re solving for, but also the markets.  Therefore, while I’m sympathetic to the idea of extending this out, in general I think if we want market investors to get back in and to prepare to get back in, we should tell them when we’re planning on exiting this thing, because I think we’re going to have cliff effects at any point that we complete these purchases.  I suspect that we should give them as much notice as possible.  My preference, as a result, would be to say that we are going to complete or execute this by the end of the second quarter of 2010, giving full warning to them and to all of us about how to proceed.  As a final comment, Mr. Chairman, on the agency debt, I think the staff has been incredibly up front with us that we’re really making that market even harder to operate effectively.  I think the benefits that we are drawing from continuing to be in that market are particularly limited, if not zero.  So if I had the pen, I would actually end the increases in the agency debt side. I don’t think that’s the center of consensus around the table.  So just to be practical, you can leave that as “up to” as well.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. The speaker is providing their perspective and suggestions on the mortgage market and the actions that should be taken. They also mention their preference regarding certain elements, but there is no direct disagreement with any other person or viewpoint.


Passage number 357.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Governor Duke.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The phrase "Thank you" does not indicate any form of disagreement.


Passage number 358.
 MS. DUKE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no apparent contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker, Duke, is simply expressing gratitude towards the Chairman.


Passage number 359.
  Everybody around this table has more experience with these issues than I do—  MR. TARULLO. No, that’s not true.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: The statement "No, that’s not true" suggests disagreement with a previous statement. However, without any context or previous statement provided, it is not possible to determine the exact nature of the disagreement or contention.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 360.
  [Laughter] MS. DUKE.  —but I’m struck as I look at the statements and as I listen to the discussion that it sounds like we’re doing one smooth maneuver that has been the same over a period of time when the underlying dynamics are really very different.  I would agree with President Lacker that the purchases of the MBS and the support of the housing markets has been smooth, has acted as a substitute for the financial markets that haven’t yet restarted.  But, on the other hand, the waxing and waning of programs on the asset side of the balance sheet are going to result in bursts of quantitative easing in the form of reserves, and we’re just beginning to see that. Given my impression that reserves are currently at desired levels, I think that it will result in some lowering of interest rates.  I would disagree with Governor Kohn on that, and then disagree with President Lacker and agree with President Yellen that this is not necessarily a bad thing, that it’s probably warranted by the conditions that we are facing.  Also, I would point out that while the TALF is supporting lending, on the one hand, our regulatory policies are generally acting to restrict credit, on the other, so those two things are working at cross-purposes, perhaps. With all of these different things going on, I have difficulty weighing the relative impact of each one on the final outcomes, but I do remain concerned that on balance we’re going to see too little credit availability leading to too much saving and a slower recovery than we would like.  So I do support alternative B. I think through tapering we actually are likely to learn a little bit more about the effects of stock versus flow, as well as about the bank response to this second big tranch of reserves coming in, so it certainly would be possible in the future to argue for an extension into the second quarter, but I’m not sure whether that would be through more gradual tapering or through an increase in the purchases. I think it just depends on how those develop. In keeping with my banker roots, I do find paragraph 1 awfully rosy compared with the reservations that were expressed in the policy round, but I don’t have any changes to offer. I would delete the “up to” language, but, again, I’m not sure I’m terribly strongly in favor of that; I would probably also use the first quarter, again, saying that in the future I may prefer the second quarter. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: In this passage, there is contention and disagreement expressed by the speaker. They agree with some statements made by other individuals (President Lacker, President Yellen) and disagree with others (Governor Kohn, President Lacker). They also express concern about the impact of different policies and express uncertainty about the best course of action (such as whether to extend tapering or increase purchases).


Passage number 361.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement expressing gratitude towards Governor Tarullo.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 362.
 MR. TARULLO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I can support alternative B, although, like President Yellen, not without some reluctance.  I have two difficulties with the language of alternative B as drafted.  In paragraph 1, although I think it does reflect accurately our sense of the current trajectory of the economy, I don’t think it captures the level of uncertainty about what may happen next year, and thus I would be substantially more comfortable with an explicit indication of that uncertainty. With respect to paragraph 3, I think President Bullard captured the most important point from my point of view, which is that the world should understand that we’re prepared to respond as required by economic circumstances.  I worry that there is a sense of finality that is projected in the language as currently drafted, and I don’t think it turns on the “up to” language for the reasons that Governor Warsh suggested.  I think it turns more upon the way it’s stated and, to be perfectly honest, upon a lot of external commentary which has begun to impute a certain finality to us. So whether through the mechanism that President Bullard suggested, or President Rosengren suggested, or some other means, I would be substantially more comfortable with alternative B if it states in more or less—and I say “more or less” given that we are a central bank—explicit fashion that we are prepared to respond to changing economic conditions, so that people do understand this is not final in the sense that, even if things begin to deteriorate next year, we’re not going to think there’s a high hurdle rate because, after all, we ended that program.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. The speaker expresses two difficulties with the language of alternative B and suggests that it should be stated more explicitly to convey their concerns about the level of uncertainty and the potential for a sense of finality projected in the current language.


Passage number 363.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. I guess I would note that we are proposing to retain the last sentence; I realize that if you repeat a sentence too many times it begins to lose meaning.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is merely acknowledging the fact that repetition can diminish the impact or meaning of a sentence.


Passage number 364.
 MR. TARULLO. That is exactly my idea of it.  People look at the deltas, I think.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement expresses agreement with the idea that people tend to focus on the deltas.


Passage number 365.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the single phrase "Vice Chairman".


Passage number 366.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First, I just want to talk to some points that President Plosser raised about inflation expectations.  I completely agree that inflation expectations matter. I think we have to be careful, though, that our concern about inflation expectations does not imply to others that we’ll be forced to take back accommodation sooner. On the inflation expectations front, we can actually make considerable progress by explaining to people clearly why we can exit. I thought it was interesting that everyone here has stipulated that we can exit, but I don’t think that the market believes that everybody on this Committee believes that we can exit.  I think it would be helpful to the markets if we did explain  that, and that would help keep inflation expectations more anchored.  I also think that we could help keep inflation expectations better anchored by explaining that we think inflation will be subdued given the large output gap. We can actually accomplish both goals—explain our policy a little better and work at keeping inflation expectations anchored.  So I think communication is something that we need to continue to work on.  We’ve made quite a bit of progress this summer—your speech and testimony, Mr. Chairman, on the exit strategy helped.  But I think the more people who are confident that we can manage our exit, the more helpful it will be on the inflation expectations front. Yesterday I was hoping to talk about large-scale asset purchases.  [Laughter] Now as next to the last speaker, I think I’m going to be very repetitive, but I do think it’s important to commit to do the entire $1¼ trillion, and a lot of people already touched on the reasons.  Governor Kohn talked about the fact that the trajectory of the unemployment rate is still unsatisfactory, and I completely agree. It’s less unsatisfactory than it was before, but it’s still very unsatisfactory, so taking back any sort of accommodation that is discretionary to us at this meeting seems inappropriate.  In terms of the specific reasons that I was going to give yesterday, the first is that this is what’s expected.  If we don’t do what the market expects in this case, it would lead to an inadvertent tightening of financial conditions, and not just directly in terms of the effects on agency MBS yields because of the potential lack of additional purchases, but also because it would be a new signal that we’re closer to exit in a broader sense.  Remember, if you compare where the market is in terms of the timing of raising the federal funds rate and where the Greenbook is, there’s a pretty big gap. So, for the market to be surprised, we’re going to have to move faster than the market expects.  It seems to be a pretty strong presumption that we’re probably going to go slower than the market expects.   Second, we are pretty far along in this program, so this idea of not completing it gets difficult if you also want to do tapering that lasts through the end of the first quarter.  By the end of this week we will have purchased, what, $895 billion roughly?  That leaves $355 billion, with twenty-seven weeks until the end of the first quarter.  That means we’ve been purchasing at $25 billion a week, roughly, up to now.  If we decided to do the whole amount, we’re still cutting the rate of purchases roughly in half over the next six months.  If you imagine that we cut the purchases to $20 billion a week between now and the next meeting, we’d only have about $235 billion left at the next meeting, and then we’d have to say:  Well, do we really want to have the taper be so dramatic that we cannot actually do the whole program?  I just think that we have to recognize that we’re so far along in this program that it’s extraordinarily likely that we’re going to want to complete it.  In that case, I don’t really see the benefit of retaining this very small degree of optionality relative to the high probability that we’re actually going to go through with this program. Last, this is a new point, surprisingly, although Brian did raise it in his comments yesterday. When we did implement the tapering language for the Treasury purchase program,, we also committed to do the entire $300 billion at the same time.  So there is a risk, and I don’t know how big a risk it is—probably a slight risk—that if we don’t take the “up to” language out, the market may note the difference:  We committed to the entire amount when we did tapering with the Treasury purchase program, and in this case, we’d be committed to tapering but we’d keep the “up to” language in. I think that will create unnecessary ambiguity that will create some risk. So obviously I’m in favor of taking the “up to” language out.  In terms of the other language, I have some sympathy with this idea of being a little bit more vague, but my problem with that is, how does the Desk then know what to do.  I think there’s a bit of a tension there.  I  don’t think there’s that big a problem bringing back the purchase programs.  If the economy behaves in a really bad way, I think the market would probably expect it.  I think if we say “by the end of the first quarter” that doesn’t really rule out bringing it back if things go adversely. On the question of “wide range,” I agree with Governor Kohn.  I think “all available tools” is the broadest phrase. “Wide” is less broad.  “Range” is less broad than that.  I think it makes sense for us to err on that intermediate step, and maybe we can go to “a range of tools” two or three meetings from now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their agreement with previous points raised and offering their own suggestions and opinions.


Passage number 367.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. Thank you. President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a simple statement thanking President Plosser.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 368.
 MR. PLOSSER. Mr. Chairman, before you do your summary, I’d like to put something back on the table that really hasn’t been addressed as much as I think it needs to be.  I raised it yesterday, and President Lacker raised it today, and that’s this issue of the SFP program and the importance it plays; in fact, it will be adding more stimulus to our balance sheet and more reserves to the economy.  The Treasury has the authority to make this decision at the end of the day, and if this Committee is consciously choosing not to sterilize that and, therefore, increase stimulus, then we need to acknowledge that we are choosing to do that rather than accepting it passively. It’s not clear whether the discussion about the increase in stimulus around this table and the options for providing it have been under the premise that the SFP is going to be there.  As you suggested yesterday, when you alluded to this and talked about it briefly, it is important that this Committee make an active decision to accept that additional stimulus, if that’s what the Committee so chooses, or to reject it and sterilize it.  But I would not like that to be just sort of skipped over and accepted without a conscious discussion about how we think that fits into our broader strategy. That’s my issue, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention in the passage. The speaker is raising an issue and expressing disagreement with the lack of discussion and decision-making regarding the SFP program and its impact on stimulus. They are advocating for a conscious discussion and active decision-making on whether to accept or reject the additional stimulus.


Passage number 369.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you. Well, let me try to summarize.  First on the substance, we’ve all agreed that the intermeeting data were more favorable—that’s a great relief, and I think to some extent it validates the approach we took back in March.  If we had known in March where we’d be today, I think we would be reasonably relieved about it.  So I think that’s all encouraging. That being said, as I mentioned in my go-round comments on the outlook, the economy does remain quite weak, certainly quite far from meeting our maximum employment objective. And there are costs on the downside—and I’m not talking about an insurance argument here; I’m talking about the neutral-risk size of the costs.  I think the downside risks are still dangerous, because on the downside lies the possibility of renewed financial crisis, and, of course, the marginal cost of higher unemployment—or less employment—is greater when you’re starting from such an adverse position. So I don’t think that scaling back stimulus significantly at this meeting is warranted.  Having said that, I see it as a nuanced situation.  I think it’s not right to say that we are going full bore and not in the process of exiting.  We have both actively and passively allowed the rundown of substantial amounts of our liquidity programs, and my own assumption is that, as the early 2010 deadline comes around, we will, in fact, close many, if not most, of those programs.  Second, we have ended the Treasury program.  So I think it’s clear—we’ve talked a good bit about exit—to the markets and the public that we are in a mode now of thinking about the exit and have taken some concrete steps in that direction. A second point that’s come up, which I think is an interesting one, is, to put it most bluntly, the question of whether completing the $1¼ billion of MBS purchases is a further easing or a staying in place.  Because I’ve been focused on the asset side and on the effects on interest rates, I guess I would conclude that it’s closer to staying in place than it is to a further easing. First, mortgage rates have been fairly constant throughout this entire program, and I think that what we’ll be seeing when we stop the program is probably some backup in mortgage rates, so that measure of ease has been constant over the period of the program.  In fact, whether you believe in a stock effect or a flow effect, either one would suggest that, if you were to cut back your planned purchases, it would cause rates to rise, and it would be a tightening relative to expectations. Now, the quantitative easing theory is a little bit more ambiguous.  If we’re putting more reserves into the system, then arguably that is a further easing.  But I have two observations.  One is that those effects may be small, and the other is, as Governor Duke mentioned, that it’s uncertain to what extent the effects of that are anticipated in the markets already.  So it’s a complicated question.  My own feeling is that if we were to adopt something like alternative C and actively cut back on our plan today, not only would it be tightening in the sense of pulling back on the asset-purchase program, but it also would send a very strong signal that we were very close to exit, and I still don’t think we’re there yet.  So I do think that our options really are to continue with the program, and one of the key decisions that we have is exactly how to describe how we’re going to go forward with the program at this point. Now, there’s the other side of the question that President Yellen and Governor Tarullo and others mentioned.  If we’re unsatisfied with the situation and we think the federal funds rate ought to be minus 4 percent, why aren’t we doing even more?  Here again, I don’t think we should rule that out, but I feel some sympathy to what President Evans said, which is that, given all the uncertainties we have and the issues about our balance sheet and exit and our uncertainties about the effects of these programs, it’s not obvious that we do have a lot of ammunition left even on this unconventional dimension.  Having said that, I think we should obviously keep this   possibility alive if the situation warrants it, but it’s not clear to me at this point we should be doing more either.  So I do support the language in alternative B, but there are a couple of decisions that we need to make. To get to the most substantive one first, I’m not sure, Governor Tarullo, if I got your vote on the “up to” language, but, excluding your vote, I think I have five for keeping “up to,” six for dropping it, and four who were split evenly between slightly favored one or the other.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is summarizing the current situation and expressing their own perspective on the matter. While they mention alternative options and considerations, they do not engage in a direct argument or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 370.
 Did you have a preference? MR. TARULLO. Yes. I think it depends for me, ultimately, Mr. Chairman, on what other language might change.  Were you to tell me that no other language was going to change and I get to do “up to” or not, I would want it out.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker expresses uncertainty and states that their decision depends on other factors and conditions.


Passage number 371.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. I’m happy to take another straw vote, but personally I lean slightly towards taking it out on the grounds of market certainty and on the argument that the Vice Chairman made, namely, that by November we will in any case be already up to $1 trillion, and we won’t have a lot of flexibility to fall short.  But frankly, I’m with President Lockhart—I think it’s a pretty close call, and I don’t think it necessarily is a first-order issue, but we do need to resolve it. So if it’s okay, I think I’d like to take a straw vote of the full Committee including all participants.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 372.
  President Plosser, is that okay with you? MR. PLOSSER. That’s okay, but there are two elements to this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage simply states that there are two elements to something, without indicating any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 373.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The word "okay" does not present any contention or disagreement in itself. It is a neutral expression often used to indicate agreement or acceptance.


Passage number 374.
 MR. PLOSSER. One is the “up to” and the other is how long we extend it for.  So I’m trying to figure out whether we want to treat those separately.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is not expressing any disagreement or contention. Instead, it is discussing different factors or considerations and expressing a need to determine how to approach them.


Passage number 375.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. "All right" is a statement that does not involve any contention or disagreement. It is simply an expression indicating agreement or approval.


Passage number 376.
 MR. PLOSSER. For some of us that might be dependent.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage does not present any conflicting viewpoints or opposing arguments. It simply introduces a possibility or situation that some people might experience.


Passage number 377.
   CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay. So I think if we keep “up to,” again, and we taper, I think we ought to have an end date at a minimum.  If we take away the end date, then there’s just too much uncertainty involved.  So let’s talk for a moment about the end date.  Brian, how strong is the preference of the Desk for the first quarter?  What arguments can you make about first quarter versus what I think are the two other options we’ve heard:  One is end of second quarter and the other is in the second quarter, the difference being, I guess, that the end of second quarter theoretically could encompass a much earlier decline.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: There is no clear disagreement or contention in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different options and seeking information or opinions on the matter.


Passage number 378.
 MR. SACK. I think even using the end of first quarter provides a six-month tapering period, which is actually pretty long.  The concerns I raised in the briefing were that a longer tapering period certainly will require a much steeper drop-off in the pace of purchases in the near term.  As policymakers, the risk to be taken into consideration is whether that will actually prompt a quicker backup in mortgage rates. My main point was that, from a market functioning perspective, I thought Q1 is a sufficient tapering period. So I wouldn’t use market functioning as an argument for going all the way to Q2. I think that decision would have to be based instead on market effects and policy flexibility and things that fall in your domain, not mine.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 379.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I have the following proposed compromise on that.  President Yellen correctly made an interesting suggestion of replacing “completed” with “executed,” and the reason that matters is that unlike Treasuries, MBS take weeks to clear, so if we execute by the end of the first quarter, that means the balance sheet effects will probably go into the second quarter.  Is that going to be okay?  All right, so let’s take that as given, if we will, that we’re going to execute these things by the end of the first quarter.  Then conditional on that, can I have a straw vote on whether to keep “up to.”  Those in favor of keeping “up to,” please raise your hand. I see one, two, three, four, five. Those in favor of dropping “up to”? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.  The preference is to drop “up to.”  That has the advantage of being parallel to the Treasury language and creating some more certainty. That all being said, I think it’s always clear that we have flexibility.  We have a last sentence here that says we’ll be reviewing the timing and purchase of securities, so I don’t think we have abandoned flexibility. I for one certainly would be open to adjusting the program if we do see significant changes in the outlook in the next few weeks. Yes, President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. President Lacker expresses agreement with the proposed compromise and states that he is open to adjusting the program if necessary.


Passage number 380.
 MR. LACKER. Taking out “up to” is a firm commitment to the program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the given passage. The statement "Taking out 'up to' is a firm commitment to the program" expresses a clear and definitive stance without any conflicting perspectives or opposing viewpoints.


Passage number 381.
  If we were to see some problems in banking markets caused by the expansion of reserves, would we consider running off Treasuries, or selling Treasuries, in order to drain reserves?  Is that an element of flexibility that remains on the table? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Actually, that’s a good question, and I was going to respond to President Plosser’s point.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It acknowledges that the question raised is a good one and indicates that the speaker was intending to respond to a point made by President Plosser.


Passage number 382.
 MR. LACKER. It’s related to this question as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage given. The phrase "It's related to this question as well" suggests a connection or relevance to another topic, but it does not indicate any form of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 383.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes. So I think there are a couple of things going on there.  First, it’s my expectation that the SFP program will come back after the debt ceiling issue is resolved, although, of course, as I said, we shouldn’t count on that definitively.  Second, these programs—the reverse repos, the term deposits, these tools that we want to have in place—I think we ought to put them into operation on some small scale early, that is, if possible, by the end of the year or early next year, just so that we can be assured that they work and the market can see that they work. So I would encourage staff to keep that goal in mind.  I think that would give us certainly an additional way—and this actually corresponds to about the time that the SFP  is going to run down around the end of the year—to fine-tune if reserves were becoming a concern; of course, we could always sell Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 384.
  MR. PLOSSER. Excuse me.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the statement "Excuse me." It is a polite and neutral phrase used to get someone's attention or to apologize for interrupting.


Passage number 385.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, President Plosser


Passage number 386.
 MR. PLOSSER. I’m just trying to make sure I understand.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any evidence of contention or disagreement. It simply states the speaker's intention to ensure comprehension.


Passage number 387.
  Does that mean that your view would be that, in the absence of the return of the SFP program, we would actually use these tools to offset, in effect, that increase in stimulus or increase in reserves that’s happening?  Is that what I’m hearing you say, or is it something different? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. What I’m saying is that, in any event, we ought to start these programs on a small scale to assure ourselves that they work.  If the SFP program doesn’t come back, then I agree that, as you said, we ought to actively decide about how much reserves we want in the system. I think President Lacker raised the possibility that the high level of reserves was actually causing some kind of dysfunction or problem.  I’ll tell you my bias:  $185 billion in reserves from a macro stimulus point of view is not that big a deal.  It might be a bigger deal in terms of market function or banking function.  In that case, there would be a good reason to explain to the markets why we’re doing this operation without necessarily changing the overall intent or the thrust of our policy. So, yes, we then could use one of several methods if the Committee decided to offset some of that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 388.
 MR. PLOSSER. I guess I’m being difficult, but I’m worried about the perception of the marketplace, namely, that we are passively accepting an increase of $185 billion of reserves without an active decision by this Committee to do so.  If we do anticipate that SFP comes back, in some ways that eases our exit strategies, and I understand why that may, in fact, be desirable.But given the political interaction between debt ceilings and other things, do we want it to go away or do we want it to come back?  Those are knotty, little questions about how then we manage these extra reserves in terms of this Committee’s view of policy going forward.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The speaker is expressing their worry about the perception of the marketplace and questioning whether the Committee wants the reserves to go away or come back. This uncertainty and questioning indicate disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 389.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We’ll have the tools to manage it.  As for market expectations, because of our communication, for better or worse, I think expectations are mostly formed around the size of the purchase programs and not the size of the reserves in the banking system.  Because there’s no way to keep the purchase programs and reduce the reserves, we’re effectively locked into that. There were a couple of other things that I might as well ask about.  There was the question of “wide range” versus not having “wide range,” and I guess the argument is it’s somewhat less jarring to go to a “wide range,” but again, I don’t think this is a first-order issue. Would anyone like to comment on that before I ask for a straw vote?  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply expressing their thoughts and asking for comments on a particular issue before taking a vote.


Passage number 390.
 MR. LOCKHART. I thought Vice Chairman Dudley laid it out well, and I hadn’t thought of it so cleanly, but there are essentially three degrees of emphasis here.  One is the old language, I gather, which would have been “all available tools,” then “wide range” is sort of the middle ground, and “range” is the weakest.  Is that the way you thought of it?  So we’re actually moving from “all available tools” to something else.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply seeking clarification on the different degrees of emphasis in the language used.


Passage number 391.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The term "Vice Chairman" does not provide any information regarding whether there is contention or disagreement. It simply indicates a position or title within an organization.


Passage number 392.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  You raised it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough information to determine if there is contention or disagreement. "You raised it" is a statement that could be seen as neutral and does not imply any opposing viewpoints or conflicting opinions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 393.
 I mean, is that how you thought of it? MR. KOHN. Yes. I thought that backing away from “all available tools” would be seen as a consequential step in that the Committee, as the Chairman said, was at least putting the exit strategy into place, even though it wasn’t executing it, so I guess I have a mild preference for including “wide.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates that the speaker has a mild preference for including "wide" in the statement. This suggests that there is some contention or disagreement regarding whether or not "wide" should be included.


Passage number 394.
” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the statement "Okay." It is simply an acknowledgment or confirmation without expressing any opposing opinions or conflicting ideas.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 395.
 Any other comments on “wide”? MR. LACKER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage does not clearly present a single viewpoint or perspective. It discusses different opinions and arguments without explicitly stating which one is correct or preferable.


Passage number 396.
 Well, there’s “narrow range,” and “wide” is in between “narrow” and— [laughter] MR. PLOSSER.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 397.
 Or we could say “broad range,” which is in between— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. All right.  [Laughter]  I’m putting an end to this.  Let me ask how many are in favor of putting in “wide.” One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Just for the record, how many are against it?  One, two, three. Okay. So let’s include “wide.” I think those are the major decisions. I will comment on the first paragraph.  We had some views on both sides, that is, whether it was too cheery or not cheery enough, whether it was certain enough or uncertain enough.  I’m at a little bit of a loss as to where to go with it.  I felt the comments were pretty balanced around where we were, but if anyone else would like to address that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 398.
  Would you like to address that, Governor Tarullo? MR. TARULLO. Yes, but I don’t get the sense that anybody else has any appetite for it, so I don’t want to take people’s time up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The speaker acknowledges that there is disagreement or contention but also mentions that they are hesitant to discuss it further as others might not be interested.


Passage number 399.
  After “Although economic activity is likely to remain weak for a time,” I would have inserted, “and there remains considerable uncertainty as to future economic performance, the Committee anticipates that…” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes, I understand. I think the “likely to remain weak” probably conveys a lot of your uncertainty.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing understanding and agreement with the statement regarding uncertainty.


Passage number 400.
 MR. TARULLO. It’s the same point, I think, that you made before, which is that there is language which has been in there for a while, but now we have cheered up the rest of the paragraph. Just as in paragraph 3, the language in the last sentence has been in there for a while,  but we’ve firmed up the rest of the paragraph.  That’s why I was hoping for at least mildly offsetting phraseology changes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply discussing changes in language and expressing their hope for specific phraseology changes.


Passage number 401.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: There is not enough information in the passage to determine whether there is contention or disagreement regarding President Plosser.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 402.
 MR. PLOSSER. I would just comment that we do have this phrase that household spending will be “constrained by ongoing job losses, sluggish income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.” So we have some caveats in there about weaknesses that are inherent in the economy already in this paragraph.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: The passage acknowledges that there are some caveats or weaknesses in the economy that will constrain household spending. This indicates that there is some level of contention or disagreement about the potential strength of household spending due to these constraints.


Passage number 403.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. If we wanted to fine-tune, one other suggestion—and I promise this is the last thing—in the sentence beginning “businesses are still cutting back,” there is the part about “slower pace.”  We could go back to the August language, which says, “Businesses are still cutting back on fixed investment and staffing, but they are continuing to make progress in bringing inventory stocks into better alignment with sales.”  So it would be the same sentence as last time, and we would eliminate one element of cheeriness from the description.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The passage simply suggests a potential change in wording without any opposition or conflicting viewpoints mentioned.


Passage number 404.
 Is there any interest in that? MR. TARULLO: Even I’m not interested in that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 405.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. All right. I think we, I hope, have executed effective directive wording.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply expresses the speaker's hope and belief that they have effectively executed directive wording.


Passage number 406.
 MR. MADIGAN. Mr. Chairman, I have some suggested wording for that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that the speaker has some suggested wording for something.


Passage number 407.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the word "Okay."


Passage number 408.
 MR. MADIGAN.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 409.
 But before we get to that, could I ask about paragraph 2? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Sure.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The word "sure" is an affirmative statement that suggests agreement or certainty.


Passage number 410.
 MR. MADIGAN.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 411.
 Are we taking that as it is here or not?  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We could reverse the order.  The way it’s written, President Plosser, it’s intended to say that these are both necessary conditions, that they’re both part of the model. One version we had earlier started off by saying “longer-term inflation expectations are stable, and substantial resource slack is likely to continue dampening cost pressures.  Therefore, the Committee. . . .”  I don’t think that’s any better from your perspective.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply providing an alternative version of the statement and stating their opinion about it.


Passage number 412.
 MR. PLOSSER. No, for my purposes, I was trying to get some more conditionality into it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker simply states their purpose of trying to incorporate more conditionality without any conflicting views or opposition.


Passage number 413.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. However, since the passage itself is not provided, I cannot give a specific explanation for the presence of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 414.
 MR. PLOSSER. The degree to which slack will damp pressures is conditional on these anchored expectations, and that’s the message I was trying to instill by reversing the order.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply discusses a conditional relationship between slack and anchored expectations.


Passage number 415.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. What we’ve done, of course, is added inflationary expectations to the description.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

The passage is simply stating that inflationary expectations have been added to the description. There is no indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 416.
 MR. PLOSSER. I acknowledged that was a step forward.  I thought that was great.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker acknowledges and agrees with the progress made, expressing positive thoughts about it.


Passage number 417.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 418.
 Anything else?   All right, Brian, would you like to read the statement? MR. MADIGAN. Mr. Chairman, perhaps I could refer everybody to page 3 of my briefing materials and make sure that everybody agrees on what’s being changed.  No change to paragraph 1. No change to paragraph 2. In paragraph 3:  inclusion of the word “wide;” several lines down, deletion of the phrase “up to;” a few more lines down, substitution of the word “executed” for “completed” just before the bracket, and inclusion of the phrase “by the end of the first quarter.” No other changes, I believe, to the statement.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply referring to specific changes that need to be made and ensuring that everyone agrees on them.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 419.
 MR. EVANS.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 420.
 Can I ask just one question? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage because it only mentions "President Evans" without providing any statements or opinions that could indicate disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 421.
   MR. EVANS. By using the word “execute” in the same sentence, we’re going to refer to “executed” for the MBS but “completed” for Treasuries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is simply discussing the use of different terms (execute vs. complete) when referring to MBS and Treasuries.


Passage number 422.
  Any— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 423.
 I think the market people will figure out the difference, right? VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Because it’s settlement issues.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: It is unclear whether there is contention or disagreement in the passage provided.


Passage number 424.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. We’re using the language that’s technically correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply mentions that the language being used is technically correct, without indicating any opposing viewpoints or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 425.
  Brian, is that right? Do you have any problem with this? MR. SACK. No, I don’t have a problem.  I don’t think it’s a massive source of confusion if it says “completed,” but I have no problem with “executed” either.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker states that they don't have a problem and they are open to both the words "completed" and "executed," suggesting a lack of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 426.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The phrase "All right" does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a simple expression often used to indicate agreement or acceptance.


Passage number 427.
 MR. MADIGAN. Mr. Chairman, on the directive.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not provide any indication of contention or disagreement. The speaker is addressing the chairman and beginning their statement with respect to a directive.


Passage number 428.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Explanation: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 429.
 MR. MADIGAN. I’m on page 8 of my handout, directive 4, alternative B.  To reflect the use of the word “execute” in the statement, in the middle of the paragraph I’d suggest that we break the sentence beginning “the Desk is expected” into two sentences so that the first sentence would end at “after the end of October.”  That is, “The Desk is expected to complete purchases of about $300 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of October,” period.  “It is also expected to execute purchases of up to $200 billion in housing-related agency debt and about $1.25 trillion of agency MBS by the end of the first quarter.”  That applies “execute” to both debt and MBS, but I don’t think that’s a problem.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply suggesting a change in the structure of the sentence for clarity purposes.


Passage number 430.
 CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Okay, and let me just remind everybody that we’re retaining “up to” for the agency debt. I think the sense of the Committee, Brian, is that we’ll continue to slow that down. We may well not want to go to the full amount of that category.   All right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

This passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker is simply reminding everyone about the decision to retain "up to" for agency debt and mentioning that the Committee may not want to reach the full amount in that category. There is no indication of disagreement or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 431.
 Any other comments?  Matt, can you call the roll? MR. LUECKE. Yes. This vote will encompass alternative B with the changes described by Brian Madigan, as well as directive B, also with the changes described by Brian Madigan.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The passage simply provides information about what the vote will encompass, including alternative B with changes described by Brian Madigan and directive B with changes described by Brian Madigan.


Passage number 432.
 Chairman Bernanke  Yes Vice Chairman Dudley  Yes Governor Duke Yes President Evans Yes Governor Kohn Yes President Lacker Yes President Lockhart Yes Governor Tarullo Yes Governor Warsh Yes President Yellen  Yes CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It is a simple expression of gratitude and does not involve any conflicting ideas or arguments.


Passage number 433.
  Matt, do you know if the lunch is ready at 12:30? MR. LUECKE. The lunch is ready now.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement simply provides information about the readiness of the lunch.


