Passage number 1.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  I think Brian has had an extraordinary three years as head of the Markets Group and SOMA manager.  It probably feels like dog years rather than people years.  [Laughter]  The balance sheet hasn’t changed very much in terms of size on your watch, but the composition certainly has. The Desk has been extraordinarily busy completing the first LSAP program of agency MBS and Treasuries, the second LSAP program, which probably got a little bit more attention than the first maturity extension program, and, of course, the reinvestment of maturing MBS securities. The fact that all of the MBS operations were brought in-house under Brian’s watch is also very important.  Moreover, Brian has been an exemplary leader, with intelligence, knowledge, the ability to relate monetary policy and macro to markets, and the ability to see the forest for the trees.  He has also managed the Markets Group effectively.  It has expanded from 230 people when I was the head of the Markets Group to about 400 people today, and its functions have broadened considerably as the financial stability mandate of the System has increased. I think you all would agree with me that he has been a terrific resource for the Committee, not only through his briefings and ability to answer all our questions but also in terms of the quality of product that is coming out of the Markets Group, in terms of the daily briefings, and the MarketSOURCE material, which has really been upgraded significantly under his watch. He has been a very able adviser to me and to Governor Yellen.  He speaks his mind, makes very good points, and has very definitely improved my own thinking.  He has kept me out of trouble on numerous occasions.  He has just been a joy for me personally to work with, and I am going to miss him not being in this role any longer.  But the good news is that the Markets Group, under his stewardship, is quite deep.  Lorie Logan, sitting next to him, is a very senior person in Markets, as is Kevin Stiroh.  And with the new head of the Markets Group, they will   continue on in the tradition that we have had in recent years.  Thank you, Brian, for your efforts.  It has been a privilege.  [Applause] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. No one can replace Brian, but someone can succeed him.  Our first item is the proposal to appoint Simon Potter as manager of the System Open Market Account.  And accompanying that, because Simon is currently an associate economist of the FOMC, the item also proposes that we appoint Jamie McAndrews to replace Simon in that role.  Both appointments would be effective June 30 and would hold until the selection of successors at the first regularly scheduled organizational meeting next January.  I would like to turn to the Vice Chairman to talk a bit about the selection process that produced Simon’s name.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 2.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you.  We obviously take whom we have at the head of the Markets Group and as the SOMA manager extraordinarily seriously, and we ran a very complete and thorough process to identify a successor.  We hired Spencer Stuart as a search firm, and they identified a large number of candidates that we augmented by our own knowledge and contacts throughout the markets business.  We identified five criteria that we think are important for the SOMA manager and head of the Markets Group—macroeconomic monetary policy knowledge, knowledge of markets, knowledge of the Fed, demonstrated management ability, and demonstrated operations experience.  Now, it turns out that as far as we can tell, nobody in the world actually has all five of those attributes.  [Laughter]  But we think having three and a half of them is about as good as you can do, and I would apply that grade to myself and to Brian when we took on that job.  It is the kind of position where you are not going to be expert in all things when you start, but the Markets Group is really deep and able, and they have shown their ability to nurture the past two heads of Markets in a very successful way.  We went through the search process, and we identified a number of strong candidates both within the New York Fed, elsewhere in the Federal Reserve System, and outside working at a variety of different private-sector firms.  And after going through the process of extensive interviewing by a large number of people in New York and close consultation with the Chairman and Governor Yellen, there was a very strong consensus that Simon Potter was the right person for the job.  As the Chairman noted, Simon has been the co-head of Research over the past couple of years and been an associate economist for this Committee.  But it is important to underscore the fact that Simon is not just a macroeconomist and monetary policy person.  He has really broadened his knowledge quite a bit beyond macroeconomics.  He did spend a stint in Markets, and he took to it because when the Markets position came open he was strongly interested in the position.  The other thing that he did last year, which I think was really noteworthy and demonstrates his management acumen, was to serve as the point person for writing the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s first Annual Report, which was an extraordinarily challenging assignment because, one, it had never been done before, and, two, you’re herding cats from all the different agencies that all had different views.  That was a pretty stern test, and Simon passed it with flying colors, which really demonstrates his management acumen.  Obviously, these are big shoes to fill with Brian’s departure, but I am very confident that he will be able to do so very ably. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Are there questions for the Vice Chairman. President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It simply provides information about the process of identifying a successor for the SOMA manager and head of the Markets Group.


Passage number 3.
 MR. FISHER.  It is not a question, but I just wanted to thank the Vice Chairman for that thorough description.  This has become, as Brian knows, a much more complex business than ever before.  I think I have known every head of Markets going back to Paul Volcker and up toyou, Brian, and your brilliant performance.  In a way, you are the whale.  [Laughter]  And we don’t want to have whale repetition occur, so, for the record, I wanted to thank the Vice Chairman for filling us in, and wish Simon good luck. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Other questions.  [No response] If not, could I have a motion to appoint Simon Potter to manage the System Open Market Account, and to appoint Jamie McAndrews to replace Simon as associate FOMC economist. MS. YELLEN.  So moved. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any objection. [No response]  Thank you.  The next item is action on proposed adjustments to the external communications policy for System staff. Governor Yellen. MS. YELLEN.1  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  When the Committee adopted its external communications policies last June, we noted that some further adjustments to the policy for Federal Reserve System staff might be appropriate.  The Chairman asked me to oversee that fine-tuning process.  And since then, the directors of the economics divisions at the Board and the research directors at the Reserve Banks have engaged in a series of consultations, and they have identified a number of specific adjustments that would be helpful in clarifying certain aspects of the policy.  For example, the preamble would now include a sentence underscoring the benefits of economic research, and the principles and practical examples would now specifically encompass staff contacts with other government agencies, central banks, and multinational institutions.  I won’t enumerate the various adjustments that are denoted by insertions and strikeouts in the document that was distributed to all of you earlier.  Rather, I would like to propose this set of amendments for adoption by the Committee, and I would be happy to answer any questions that you may have. 1 The materials used by Governor Yellen are appended to this transcript (appendix 1).  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Are there any questions for Governor Yellen.  She is referring to the memorandum of May 3 that was circulated to the Committee.  [No response] If there are no questions, can I have a motion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses gratitude and thanks to the Vice Chairman and there is no response indicating any objection or disagreement.


Passage number 4.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I do support this initiative to explore the development of an FOMC consensus forecast and a quarterly monetary policy report. I see it as a potentially very useful enhancement to our policy communications.  As I have said before on many occasions, increasing transparency is a journey, not a destination in some sense, and I view this exploration in that light. I do see no particular urgent problem in current communications that would necessitate rushing to a policy report.  Rather, I believe we should take time to fully explore the many nuances and issues surrounding development of such a report.  We currently have a variety of vehicles to communicate to the public in addition to the statement, including the Chairman’s press conferences and speeches. We also have the quarterly SEP and the semiannual policy report to the Congress. I actually can envision, for example, that the SEP and the report to the Congress could be collapsed into one monetary policy report that would provide three very important things:  a comprehensive expression of the range of views of the Committee—as President Bullard just noticed, fan charts can help a lot in representing that—a consensus forecast that informs our policy decisions, and the opportunity to clearly articulate both the range of economic conditions that go into our thinking as well as our policy strategy. Done right, I believe that such a report can substantially enhance our policy communications. I think we can learn a lot from running the experiment that has been outlined by Governor Yellen and the Chairman in conjunction with the July meeting, and I am comfortable proceeding along those lines.  For the purpose of the experiment, it seems reasonable to proceed, as suggested in the memo and as augmented by the Chairman, with having the Chairman be responsible for drafting a consensus forecast prior to the meeting and then soliciting participants’ views on whether they could endorse the forecast, had reservations, or preferred some alternativeforecast. In July this has a particular disadvantage to it because I envision, as President Bullard discussed, that we would have a mechanism for submitting the SEPs, which actually captures the range of views.  Sitting in the Chairman’s position, it seems to me that having those SEPs at his disposal as he begins to craft a consensus forecast could be highly useful.  You won’t have that in July, but we would have it in September.  I believe that can be very useful, whereas individually trying to collapse verbal conversations that might go on with everybody would be a more difficult task.  Keeping the SEPs and doing those SEPs can be useful inputs into this process. It is reasonable to operate under the assumption that the Chairman will retain ultimate responsibility for the consensus forecast and the narrative surrounding it.  However, whether this is a stable outcome or, put differently, whether the report ultimately will be useful and a beneficial communications vehicle is going to depend a lot on how this process plays out and how it works and what goes into the consensus forecast, and more importantly for the report, how the diversity of views section is actually handled.  As President Kocherlakota mentioned, it’s going to be important that we understand that whatever process we set up, that we around this table have a lot of confidence in the Chairman and his ability and his skills to do this.  Whether that will always be true with other Chairmen remains to be seen, and we have to be a little sensitive that we set up a process and a mechanism that is robust across different individuals that may sit in that chair. Even if the Chairman retains responsibility, I still envision the Committee voting on the entire report, as President Bullard suggested, much like we do with the minutes whereby the Committee members vote on whether the minutes fully reflect what happened in the meeting.  The policy report would fully reflect the views and perspectives that went into developing our policy.  The Committee would vote both on the consensus forecast and the accuracy of the report reflecting the range of views. The only way we are going to get a better handle on how this is going to work is to try it, and we’ll no doubt discover lots of pitfalls, troubles, and things we will have to iron out, but I think it is important that we give this a fair try and be willing to adapt it as we go along to fit whatever we discover in the process. I am very strongly in favor of having a monetary policy report for some time, and I would encourage us to begin this journey, but to do so at a very deliberate pace.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, expresses support for the initiative to explore the development of an FOMC consensus forecast and a quarterly monetary policy report, stating that it could be a useful enhancement to policy communications. He also suggests that the SEP and the report to Congress could be combined into one comprehensive report that includes a consensus forecast and a range of views section. While he acknowledges that there may be challenges and adjustments needed in the process, he is strongly in favor of moving forward with a monetary policy report at a deliberate pace.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 5.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I don’t have any deep objections to going ahead with this experiment, but I’m relatively skeptical of the benefits it offers us. Relative to the Summary of Economic Projections we do now, it’s hard for me to see what else we could do that people out there are clamoring for. I understand the benefits of a quarterly monetary policy report that offers a richer narrative discussion of aspects of the forecast, and I agree with President Bullard, President Plosser, President Kocherlakota, and Governor Yellen on the value of that.  But it is not clear to me that the SEP doesn’t convey a fair amount already. I think the central tendency ranges aren’t that large in the grand scheme of things and that fan charts could be incorporated into the SEP without too much bother. Governor Yellen made reference to an inordinate amount of time that might be required to extract from Committee participants the textured information that goes into a broader forecast that some other central banks do.  But I am not quite sure I see how the procedure gets around requiring an inordinate amount of time of all of us without essentially foregoing gathering that information from us.  So I’m not sure what this accomplishes.  The other perspective I bring onthis is that we have made a bunch of changes in how we communicate in the past year with what we did last August and what we did in January.  I don’t think market participants have had a lot of time, and I don’t think we’ve had a lot of chances, to have some experience using it, changing it, and seeing how our communications tools vary with economic conditions.  I’m drawn to the idea of taking a pause on our journey and taking some time before we take the next step, and I’m wary of us being seen as throwing communications tools willy-nilly at the public, innovating at an excessively rapid pace in this dimension.  I have a really cautious view about this. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Lacker, expresses his skepticism about the benefits of the experiment and questions the need for additional communication tools. He also raises concerns about the amount of time and effort required to gather the necessary information for the experiment. Additionally, he expresses his caution about the rapid pace of innovation in this area.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 6.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Many of my views have already been expressed, including some concerns.  I am overall supportive.  I agree with the premise that if the Committee could formulate a consensus outlook—an outlook that served as the basis for the most recent policy decision—and if that were accompanied by the characterization of the consensus view on the degree of uncertainty and balance of the risks, all of this would enhance communication and possibly enhance policy effectiveness. I thought the May 25 memo dealt with a number of implementation ideas, and they certainly are worthy of consideration, but before tackling those ideas, I would like to raise what I would consider a more first-order conceptual question, one already discussed by President Bullard, and that is the treatment of the policy assumption.  Continuing to condition on individual policy assumptions that would serve as a starting point of formulating consensus forecasts could be problematic.  That is part of the problem with the current SEP.  And it is worth pointing out, as has already been noted, that the Bank of England avoids this challenge by basing the consensus forecast on a market expectation for policy, and although it is my understanding that it is not done today, this approach was also suggested for the Riksbank by a recent Swedish government review panel. Also I would make a slight cautionary note as we go forward, and that is that the FOMC is not designed for arriving at a consensus rationale for policy decisions, rather, just arriving at decisions.  Voters can choose to support a policy decision for quite different reasons, and I am concerned that as we try to wrap as many of us as possible into a consensus outlook and rationale, the product could be diluted a lot and might not be, at the end of the day, very effective as a communications tool.  There’s also the question of the Committee with a capital C, that is, the voters or participants.  I prefer participants so as to get beyond the changing makeup of the Committee and to avoid any question of the future relevance as we get toward the end of the year. Now, let me respond to questions two and three, which deal with practical implementation matters. On the question of does it seem reasonable that the Chairman consult with the Committee, whatever that is, in developing the consensus—yes, I certainly agree that the Chairman’s lead would be very helpful in getting this done.  But somewhat like President Kocherlakota, I’d prefer a bottom-up approach as a starting point, along the lines of the existing forecast submission versus essentially reacting to a forecast presented with the requirement of deciding how material one wants to consider differences with that forecast. Starting with something along the lines of the SEP would be my preference.  The submissions could be modified to deal with the question of the underlying policy assumptions, and then from these formal submissions, the Chairman, helped by the staff, could take the lead in deriving a consensus forecast.On the third question of whether it would be worthwhile to conduct an experimental exercise in July—yes, I think a proof of concept trial run or two or maybe three is certainly necessary going forward.  However, I am a little hesitant to go down the implementation path without first resolving the question of how to deal with the policy assumption.  The process described by Governor Yellen seems very deliberate and careful to me. I certainly endorse multiple trial runs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President George. MS. GEORGE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I, too, want to acknowledge the subcommittee and thank Governor Yellen for helping us think through communication.  I also want to thank the staff who pulled together that comparative analysis.  I found that particularly helpful in looking across other central banks. It is not clear to me, though, that the consensus forecast approach offers “a significant enhancement,” as question 1 is worded, to our current policy communication or that our current approach is flawed to the point of warranting a change of this magnitude.  I think that the public has come to understand and expect this diversity of views, and the SEP, although granted it has some issues, provides a very democratic method to convey the outlooks of the FOMC participants.  Regarding a QMPR, an enhanced narrative could be useful, but it seems to me that the narrative of the staff forecast is already provided in the FOMC meeting minutes and that adding another narrative or changing a such a well-tested vehicle for communicating could raise some questions for us in the near term about explaining our decisions as clearly as possible.  Despite these reservations, I am not opposed to proceeding with a trial run of some sort, although I am, at this stage, a bit skeptical of its value relative to what we do today. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

There is disagreement in this passage regarding the consensus forecast approach. Mr. Lockhart expresses support for the approach, but also raises concerns about the treatment of policy assumptions and the effectiveness of a consensus rationale for policy decisions. On the other hand, President George is skeptical of the approach, stating that the current approach of conveying the outlooks of FOMC participants provides a democratic method of communication.


Passage number 7.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I also want to thank Governor Yellen and the subcommittee for proceeding cautiously in an effort to get it right, and I think that is how we should proceed. I just have a few comments, Mr. Chairman, following up on the comments that have been made heretofore. In general, I share the skepticism that President George and President Lacker have expressed, and I am a little bit confused.  When you read through the memo, there is interplay between the Committee and the participants.  It is important, as President Lockhart pointed out earlier, that we reflect the full view of the Committee because, unlike the Riksbank and every other central bank that I am aware of, this is the only central bank that has rotating or occasional voters.  To capture that overall view, particularly as we approach a year-end, would   be very important.  I believe that President Bullard’s proposal, which is that the ownership of this exercise would be vested in the Chairman, is perhaps the way to get around that, but I would hope that as we and if we develop this consensus forecast the full range of views of the participants is reflected in the exercise. With regard to the three questions, again, I agree with President George and President Lacker. It may be an enhancement; I am not sure it will be a major enhancement.  We do have the meeting minutes, which I think provide a very full rationale.  We have the SEPs.  We have our semiannual report to the Congress.  This would allow us to provide more detail to be communicated to the public and perhaps, if we do it right, to present a more coherent and cohesive story about our outlook.  But I am not sure how much it really adds at the margin, and I would like to see that thought through a little bit more. I do think that, as President Lockhart pointed out, the real emphasis has to be placed on how policy is conducted, not really how to communicate or rationalize how we communicate it.  That is not the problem; the problem is the conduct of policy.  But that being said, good communication is essential for implementing good policy.  Once a policy framework is adopted, it does serve as a commitment device, and it is important to underscore what President Lockhart mentioned. With regard to the second question and the third question—I’ve partially addressed this so far—basically what we are saying is that even if we have a full range of the participants’ views, which I would insist upon as being fair, in the end the Chairman and the Board staff will be the final arbiters of the forecast and the narrative.  I do not think there is any other way to work it.  To their credit, at least in my seven years’ experience here, the Board staff has generally been fair and balanced, certainly in the minutes it prepares after every meeting, and I would hope that that would continue if we proceed with this exercise.  With regard to the third question— would it be worthwhile to conduct an experimental exercise in conjunction with the July meeting—I would say yes. I was struck by President Williams’s comment that we already have an enormous burden on the staff at a time when we have very difficult puzzles to solve, and I think it will take several trial runs, and we should proceed quite slowly.  Those are my comments, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to conclude by saying that my one concern here with regard to developing a consensus, even in your able hands, is that it be a consensus of the entire table, not just of the voters.  We need to make sure that we do not undercut what I consider to be our greatest virtue.  As I was mentioning to one of our new Governors earlier, I do believe this is the last great deliberative body in Washington, and we have to make sure that we reflect the diversity of views at this table. I know this brings a smile to your face, but I can tell you the Supreme Court is no longer as deliberative as we are.  We don’t see it anywhere else, and we need to reflect that richness that we have here at the table, and I hope it is incorporated. In summary, I would go very slow.  I would be mindful of the fact that we have other things that are very important presently, and I would hope it reflects the entire diversity of views at this table.  And lastly, we are inundating the public and the markets with information.  This may provide some new information at the margin, but I am somewhat skeptical.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Governor Yellen. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Fisher, expresses his agreement with the skepticism shared by President George and President Lacker. He also agrees with President Bullard's proposal and expresses his belief that good communication is essential for implementing good policy. Overall, Mr. Fisher's comments do not indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 8.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I very much support trying to move forward to develop a consensus forecast and a quarterly monetary policy report, and I thank the subcommittee and Governor Yellen, for their efforts.  A lot of thought and I’m sure a great deal of time went into this exercise.As I have noted before, where we are right now is not a good place.  The SEP is deeply flawed in a number of respects—no linkage of the individual interest rate forecast to the individual forecasts of economic growth and inflation, the ongoing potential for a disconnect between the median SEP liftoff date relative to the liftoff date expressed in the FOMC statement, difficulties in assessing what changes in the SEP mean when changes in the composition of the Committee occur, such as Governor Powell’s and Governor Stein’s accession to this Committee. That has changed the SEP, but in ways that are not going to be obvious to the public.  And, lastly, the SEP unfortunately focuses attention very much on our differences rather than our similarities. We should take our time in doing this, and we should be willing to test several different approaches before going public.  A model in which the Chairman generates an initial consensus forecast before seeking outside input does have a number of attractive features.  It is not cumbersome, and it has the advantage that the individual Committee participants don’t have to come up with their own forecasts.  Also, it presumably can be done within a relatively short period of time. It is going to be up to date as circumstances change. But there are several potential shortcomings to this type of approach that we at least need to note.  First, this approach could make the staff forecast very central to the process.  Not only could this make it more difficult for the staff, over time, to produce a truly independent arms-length forecast, but it also runs the risk that the consensus forecast would rest too heavily on a single model or perspective with respect to the economic outlook.  Second, and this is more important, a too-centralized approach without sufficient iteration might not lead to a true consensus.  This is critical because the goal should be to have the policy deliberations and judgments of the Committee match what is ultimately communicated in the monetary policy   report in terms of the consensus forecast.  If this doesn’t all hang together, then we will still have a problem in that what we are communicating doesn’t match how we are actually evaluating the outlook and the reaction function that we collectively use in the conduct of monetary policy.  For these reasons, it might be worthwhile trying out other alternatives as well, and I note in your comments, Mr. Chairman, that you introduced a wrinkle, which I think maybe goes in the right direction.  Conceivably, you could start the process with the Committee participant submissions of those who wish to do so.  The Chairman could then develop the first iteration of the consensus forecast from these submissions.  That is one alternative, and it might be interesting to try others.  Third, as others have said, in conducting these experiments we have to think very carefully about how robust the process is likely to be over time, as the composition of the Committee and the identity of the Chairperson changes.  I endorse what other people have said on that point. Now, in terms of a vote or not a vote, I have been wrestling with this.  It is not clear to me that a vote on the consensus forecast is absolutely necessary, but I do think that the process has to conclude in a way that there is an explicit endorsement of the outcome by the Committee.  This is necessary so that market participants will perceive that the forecast does in fact represent the Committee consensus.  Now, the endorsement doesn’t necessarily have to be agreement about the consensus forecast itself, but, instead, could represent agreement that the consensus forecast is somehow a “fair” representation of the consensus.  In this latter case, the Committee participants could still endorse adoption of the consensus forecast, even if their own forecast differed in material ways from that consensus. In terms of the quarterly monetary policy report, I do think it is a good thing to work toward.  I’d put the emphasis for right now, though, on developing a consensus forecast—the monetary policy report can be the caboose, assuming we actually succeed in this first process.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  In order not to repeat a lot of what has already been said, I don’t have any concerns with an approach that meets all of the criteria that you laid out.  I am not certain how much stronger it is.  I agree with President Lockhart that we can come to a consensus on action; I am not sure we can come to a consensus on what led us to that action.  A lot of our discussions on communication have really been discussions about a level of consensus that I am not sure is possible with 19 different people. As we have gone around the room, everybody seems to have different ideas of what this idea actually means, and so I would be careful about that. I also agree with President Williams that we have to be careful and that this is not without cost.  And the trial period is particularly not without cost because if we are going to do this without increasing the burden on staff, it would imply that there is something we are not going to ask staff to do anymore after they start doing this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there does not appear to be any contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are expressing support for developing a consensus forecast and quarterly monetary policy report, but they also acknowledge potential shortcomings and suggest alternative approaches. They emphasize the need for the process to conclude with an explicit endorsement by the Committee. There is a general consensus among the speakers that more work and experimentation is needed, but no direct conflict or disagreement is evident.


Passage number 9.
 MR. TARULLO.  Sleeping.  [Laughter] MS. DUKE.  When you are in a trial run, you are going to be doing both.  And so I think the trial period in particular will create some burden.  The second thing is that it seems to me this changes the timing of our process because if we are going to submit projections two weeks earlier, then I need the Tealbook two weeks earlier.  I know that wouldn’t create any extra burden on staff.  And then, you would have the update to that Tealbook.  We do have to be careful on that. I would suggest a couple of things.  One is that we make a moratorium on other changes to our communication while we are testing this one.  We rushed out the changes adding the fed funds rate to the SEP, and we have now been unhappy with some of the things we learned about the peculiarities of the size of our Committee and the voters versus nonvoters.  I liked the suggestions that were made by Presidents Kocherlakota, Williams, and Plosser on ways to change the statement.  But I worry that if we go back to that, all of a sudden we are now changing our statement in ways that are pretty noticeable, and the public is going say, “Okay, why are you changing that.  Is this the communication change that was foreshadowed in the minutes, or is it something else.” If we think we have an idea of what we want to go to, we shouldn’t do other things in the meantime.  And second, because this is going to create some burden, we should be clear that this takes a backseat to policy action.  We are in an arena where policy action might require an awful lot of staff time, and I would hate to see them torn between working on the new consensus forecast and working on what we are going to do at the next meeting.  That could create some conflicts. Finally, on the quarterly monetary policy report, we already have a semiannual monetary policy report to Congress, and it certainly wouldn’t hurt to work on the format of that.  Most other central banks have shorter reports.  I can’t imagine we’d get any congressional complaints that our monetary policy report was too short or too skimpy, so we can certainly work on that as we are doing the monetary policy report.  But we are going to have to think of a way to make that report quarterly without also doubling the opportunities for the Chairman to appear in front of the Congress and explain what it is that we are doing.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you for thinking about me.  [Laughter]  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It consists of suggestions and concerns expressed by different individuals, but there is no indication of disagreement among them.


Passage number 10.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I have two process comments.  The first is that I would defer the trial until September for two reasons. One is that I think Europe is much more pressing right now.  We should be focused on the brewing problems in Europe andthat should be the topic of the July meeting.  And, the other is that it should be integrated with the SEP, and so doing it in September makes a lot more sense.  If we spend some time on contingency planning in July, then we can spend September, I hope, thinking about these other things.  But we ought to get the priorities appropriately aligned. The second is tied to President Kocherlakota’s comment that the policy and the forecast are intertwined.  I am worried about changing the dynamics of the meeting. I came here with an open mind about how we should be thinking about this and was hoping that I would have some of my views informed by everybody else around the table.  I would like that to continue with monetary policy as well as with this type of decision. One question I had was whether the consensus forecast and the press briefing could be tied to the release of the minutes.  It would change when you would do the press briefing, so that there would not be an emergency right after the FOMC meeting to try to integrate everything, and it would possibly allow integrating some of the information into the minutes rather than having a completely separate press report. The advantage would be that we could jointly discuss around the table both the forecast and the policy, and they would be intertwined.  Then we would have some time to put that all together, and it could come out at the time of the minutes, and that would give you more time both to reflect on the discussion and to integrate it into the minutes process.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is focused on the speaker's concerns and suggestions for the process of decision-making within the group. There does not appear to be any contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 11.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I don’t have any major comments.  Being part of the subcommittee, I certainly endorse this proposal.  I share some of Governor Yellen’s comments about the SEP not being exactly as clear a communications device as we would like, and so I think that the consensus forecast process would help.  One of the big benefits in this is that the consensus forecast would have some common monetary policy assumption on which   everybody’s opinions about the economic outlook would be based.  At the moment, the SEP is at best a confused product because we have different policy assumptions, and we don’t identify ourselves, as Governor Yellen was mentioning.  It is not possible to sort out the pieces as to why you think inflation is going to be at our target next year and why you think it is not.  I think a common monetary policy assumption would be very good. I want to note one thing that I picked up on when I was talking to my colleagues.  As I have observed your press conferences, Mr. Chairman, it strikes me that they are not the easiest place to go out and respond to questions, especially the way that you so very correctly and authentically try to convey the opinions of the Committee and not just your own particular opinions.  I would think that you would be one of the big beneficiaries from having a consensus forecast.  In trying to describe the SEP, which is 19 different monetary policy assumptions, I am not sure if it is possible to answer some of those questions.  But if we all got together behind, as best we could, some common forecast with a common monetary policy assumption, I would think that that would be a lot easier.  I would certainly be interested in your opinions on that.  That is an important consideration, at least in my mind.  Thanks. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  That is our list.  Thank you for the comments.  Governor Tarullo.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Evans, voices agreement and endorsement for the proposal being discussed. He also suggests that having a consensus forecast with a common monetary policy assumption would be beneficial. There is no explicit disagreement or contention present in the passage.


Passage number 12.
 MR. TARULLO. May I say just a couple of things, Mr. Chairman.  Thanks.  I have listened to what everybody here had to say, and one thing that came out of this—which is a truism but probably bears repeating—is that all alternatives are imperfect. A number of people have noted the imperfections in the current SEP, which I think are substantial.  People have anticipated imperfections in this as well.  I think that is why Janet proposed an elongated anditerative process here to try to figure out whether in fact we can come up with a better alternative. The second point I would make is that I do think that the SEP is not serving us particularly well right now if the aim was to give more useful information to markets. I have talked to a number of people who read this stuff and pay close attention to it, and while there is a range of views, most people seem either not to pay very much attention to it at all, or to look at it as a kind of little game in which they try to find inconsistencies in the thinking of the Committee. This gets back to another point that Janet made two or three meetings ago about the need for something collective.  We now have a divergence between forecasting and action, which creates the kind of problems that Charlie Evans and Narayana were noting earlier. As I was listening to Narayana, it occurred to me that an important point here, which Dennis underscored as well, is what people think they mean by “consensus.”  And I guess I would be a little bit skeptical if in the more literal and etymological senses of the term we could come up with a consensus here.  But what we are looking for is some sort of collective judgment or, as Narayana would have it, a series of perhaps alternative judgments.  And that is a really useful desideratum to have, whether or not we can ultimately achieve it. I believe that is what Janet is trying to test with her subcommittee. If I heard correctly, I think there is, in some cases, reluctance or skepticism but in all cases willingness to let Janet’s subcommittee do this on an iterative basis. I have a lot of sympathy for what Eric and John said about July, though. The final point I would make is, if we go down this road, this would be a wonderful opportunity to fundamentally change the nature of the economic discussion that we have here, by which I mean dispensing with a series of readings of prepared statements on the economy, and instead actually moving toward a deliberation in which people, in talking about the forecast,   bring to bear their own views and maybe listen to and respond to one another.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply reflecting on the imperfect nature of the current SEP and expressing support for an iterative process to potentially find a better alternative. They also agree with the need for a more collective judgment or alternative judgments. There is sympathy expressed for some points made by Eric and John, but overall there is no disagreement or contention presented.


Passage number 13.
 MR. FISHER.  We may be the last deliberative body, but we can be a better deliberative body.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is stating a belief or opinion without opposition or contradiction.


Passage number 14.
 MR. TARULLO.  You know, I think we deliberate on monetary policy, not on the economics. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, okay.  Thank you very much.  So as usual, we don’t quite have a consensus.  [Laughter]  One thing that was very clear is this needs to be a slow and iterative process, and we can certainly try that.  Some of the key questions raised were how best and at what stage to get the input from the Committee and what to do about the policy assumption, and we will think about that.  Let me just state now I have at least a potential theoretical concern about taking the market rates as a policy assumption because that doesn’t allow the endogeneity of policy to developments in the economy.  What you would ideally want is some kind of rule, but, again, that is an issue we can look at. On the staff time, I have already had some discussions with David Wilcox and others, and we have in mind a process that will be very light on the staff.  I see Dave Reifschneider nodding his head, which is good news.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily discusses discussions and decision-making processes related to monetary policy.


Passage number 15.
  [Laughter] MR. REIFSCHNEIDER. Sorry, I was nodding to something Eric Engen said, not to you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Oh, not to me.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 16.
 MR. WILCOX.  That was not an authorized nod.  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We will try to be very undemanding of staff on this issue, recognizing the importance of the substantive policy questions that they are currently working on. I take that point.  So we will try a little experiment.  Many of the comments were extremely helpful.  We will go slowly, and if it doesn’t work, I am totally prepared to move on and do something else. President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It primarily discusses the speaker's plans and intentions without any conflicting viewpoints.


Passage number 17.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Mr. Chairman, I was very struck by President Rosengren’s suggestion that the experiment be in September.  I don’t know what your thinking and Governor Yellen’s thinking was on that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Well, my original thought was to iterate on the preliminary Tealbook without having an SEP projection.  We could try that, and then we could try the other in September. Okay. If everybody is amenable, maybe before lunch we could get Brian Sack’s final report on monetary and financial conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different suggestions and potential actions that could be taken.


Passage number 18.
 MR. FISHER.  First, again, Brian, thank you for your service.  Following the distinguished line you followed, you filled those shoes very ably, and I want to thank you for what you have done.  And I want to draw on your experience now to address your exhibit 3, number 16.  Would it be prudent in your view to have 0 percent holdings between zero and three years in the SOMA portfolio. What would be a rational amount for us to hold, just for the sake of maintaining healthy market operations.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement expressing gratitude and seeking advice based on the speaker's experience.


Passage number 19.
 MR. SACK. There are some consequences of taking our holdings to zero.  In particular, we won’t have any of those securities available for our securities lending facility, and we won’t be rolling over any securities into new, longer-run issues for securities lending.  The first program has already taken our holdings down meaningfully.  So to some degree, this effect is already in place, and the first program has actually left us with a very odd profile of maturities and rollovers.  The most extreme example is that in the middle of October we literally have a maturing issue of $200 that under our current procedure we would try to roll over into the   multiple securities being issued that day.  My point is that we are already facing some of these issues.  Obviously, taking it to zero will take it to the extreme. Having said that, we regard those type of issues—and securities lending, in particular—as secondary to the policy purposes of adjusting the portfolio in this way.  And of course, our not holding these securities means someone else will be, and those other investors may also make the securities available to the repo market.  So it is not clearly that detrimental to the markets.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It simply states some potential consequences of taking holdings to zero and acknowledges that while there may be some issues, they are secondary to the policy purposes of adjusting the portfolio.


Passage number 20.
 MR. FISHER.  And then the second question relates to extending the MEP in the 6-to-30-year maturity range where we would end up holding one-third, according to this table.  With regard to exit, the sell side is always different than the buy side, and we are going to be holding a significant portion of the issuance in that maturity period.  Do you have any concerns about that; do you think we can ably negotiate our way through or sell our way through in a rising interest rate environment.  And how does it affect the buy side, those we would be selling to.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 21.
 MR. SACK. Let me say a couple of things.  First of all, the issue I was raising in the briefing is that, as our holdings go up in size as a portion of the market, at some point, we always have this concern about impairing market functioning—just associated with our holdings, not necessarily with sales. It wasn’t long ago we wrestled with whether we could increase the 35 percent limit on any individual security, and here we are considering policies that may take us basically to that limit for the entire market.  So we are in uncharted territory; it is hard to figure out how far you can go.  But as I said in the briefing, because we haven’t seen meaningful problems with increasing our holdings to 30 percent, we are confident we can keep going. In terms of your question of whether we will be able to sell these securities, I think we are quite confident we will be able to sell the Treasury securities, even in a rising rate environment.  Obviously, the securities will reprice, and the market will be trading at a differentlevel, but there is no reason we shouldn’t be able to sell these securities through a competitive process at market prices. Doing this operation does have consequences for your exit strategy, which you may want to think through.  For example, the June 2011 exit principles rely on redemptions early and for quite a period to reduce the size of the balance sheet.  This will clearly reduce your capacity to shrink the balance sheet through that channel for a number of years.  It is worth considering at some point whether these actions warrant additional consideration of your exit strategy, but I don’t have any concerns about the actual ability to execute sales, however that falls into your strategy.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing information and expressing confidence in their ability to sell Treasury securities. They also mention the potential consequences for the exit strategy but do not express any concerns about the ability to execute sales.


Passage number 22.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you, Brian. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Brian, you show in number 16, “SOMA Treasury Holdings as a Percent of Outstanding.”  What is the denominator there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 23.
 MR. SACK.  Total outstanding securities in the market.  So related to that, you can create alternative statistics that would be even more concerning if you took out, say, foreign official holdings, which maybe aren’t available to the market, or if you took out bonds that have been stripped, because the market can’t easily reconstitute bonds.  But what I am showing is relative to the market as a whole. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I think this is a much smaller number than the U.S. publicly held government debt.  The U.S. public debt is on the order of 75 percent of GDP, which is roughly $10 trillion. What is the relationship of that number to this number.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement present in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing different statistics and their relationship without expressing any disagreement or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 24.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. We’re skewed to the long end now, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement "We're skewed to the long end now, right" suggests agreement or confirmation.


Passage number 25.
 MR. SACK.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the given passage.


Passage number 26.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  And Treasury is not as skewed to the long end as we are.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating a fact about the Treasury.


Passage number 27.
   MR. SACK. We own $1.6 trillion of total Treasury securities. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You have a similar number for three to six years. Oh, it’s the fact that we don’t own bills.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of facts regarding the ownership of Treasury securities and the absence of ownership of bills.


Passage number 28.
 MR. SACK. It’s the zero holdings in the zero-to-three-year maturity range.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It simply states a fact about the zero holdings in the zero-to-three-year maturity range without any conflicting viewpoints or opposing perspectives.


Passage number 29.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  There is lot of issuance in that sector. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Thank you.  A two-hander from Governor Duke. MS. DUKE.  Brian, remind me what percentage of the total agency MBS market we hold, and then, in addition to that, are there any exit issues or percentage holding issues with MBS that are different than for the Treasury market.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a conversation between two individuals where one person is asking for information and the other person is responding.


Passage number 30.
 MR. SACK. We face similar issues there. If you look as a share of the market that we transact in—fixed coupon, TBA-eligible-type agency securities—I think our current holdings are probably in the low 20 percent of outstandings, and I believe that the $500 billion LSAP that was presented as alternative A would take them to around 30 percent.  The same issue arises there about getting to a relatively sizable part of that market and not knowing exactly where the line is. However, when we think about capacity for MBS, we don’t just look at the effect on the net supply or on our share of the total outstanding.  We also pay a lot of attention to the flow of our purchases relative to production, because one thing we learned in the first LSAP was that, unlike Treasury securities, it was very hard to go out and pull MBS out of the secondary market.  It caused a lot of market functioning problems.  As a result, we are a little bit more tuned in to not getting too large relative to gross issuance. When we calibrate capacity there, we take that into consideration as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their perspective on a particular issue but does not express disagreement with anyone else.


Passage number 31.
   MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  And thank you, Brian, for outstanding service to the Federal Reserve System.  I do have one final question for you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage shows appreciation and gratitude towards Brian's service, indicating agreement and positivity.


Passage number 32.
  [Laughter] MR. SACK.  Is it about market functioning.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not provide enough context to determine if there is contention or disagreement. It only mentions laughter and does not provide any information about the content of the discussion or the participants' opinions.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 33.
 [Laughter] MR. LACKER.  I take it you wouldn’t claim that we have impaired the functioning of the Treasury repo market, but the increase of 15 basis points is in the ballpark of some ranges of estimates of the effect of the MEP on the long end of the curve in the other direction.  I’m wondering, do we still know that the MEP is, on net, stimulative.  Or is this a contractionary offset we need to take into account.  Related to that, my recollection of the theory of the case for MEP was that at the very short end there are close substitutes for reserves, especially given the expectation that the price of reserves would remain very low for two, three years maybe.  So should this lead us to revise that sense in which we view two-, three-year securities as close substitutes for reserves, and, thus, the theory on which we built the case for MEP.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes

Explanation: There is disagreement in this passage about the impact of the MEP on the long end of the curve and whether it is stimulative or contractionary. There is also a question about whether two- to three-year securities are close substitutes for reserves.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 34.
 MR. SACK. A couple of things to note.  First, we are unsure the extent to which this rise in overnight rates is associated with the MEP.  It is a common story among market participants.  We have done some empirical analysis suggesting that changes in Treasury supply do have transitory effects on repo rates. It is probably part of the story, but it is hard to know if it is the only factor or to what extent it is playing a role. And, of course, Treasury supply was increasing over this period for other reasons, not just because of our sales.  Having said that, to the extent it is putting some upward pressure on short-term interest rates—and if those were expected to persist—it would be tightening financial conditions in a way that presumably would be counterproductive.  But I don’t think that effect is large enough to offset the positive benefits of taking the duration out of the market.  And while we are unsure of the size of the effects, we also don’t think that they are permanent.  We think that, once the supply works its way through thedealer balance sheets, we will see the upward pressure on repo come off.  And for those reasons, maybe it is not quite as concerning as you suggest. But it is very much an open issue.  You could say, well, whether this is a result of the maturity extension program or not, having repo rates at 25 basis points is not productive for trying to get the most accommodative financial conditions. From a policy perspective, you could ask the question if it’s worth trying to lower them. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in this passage. The speaker acknowledges that there is uncertainty about the extent to which the rise in overnight rates is associated with the MEP. They also mention that while the increase in rates may tighten financial conditions, they believe it is not large enough to offset the positive benefits of taking duration out of the market. This suggests a disagreement about whether the rise in rates is concerning or not.


Passage number 35.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Just to follow up on President Lacker’s comment, if we were to lower the interest on excess reserves, would that likely put downward pressure on those rates that President Lacker is concerned about.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage as it is a follow-up question, seeking clarification on the potential effects of lowering the interest on excess reserves.


Passage number 36.
 MR. SACK. We believe it would put downward pressure on overnight rates.  Our guess is that the effect on the repo rate would be less than one for one.  If you are truly interested in lowering the repo rate, you could consider an IOER change, but you could also consider just directly doing repos. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is simply stating different options to consider for lowering the repo rate.


Passage number 37.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I am looking at number 16 here, and it raises the question in my mind of whether some form of reverse MEP would be feasible in the future, to just dial back the distribution among maturities, maybe preliminary to exit, while simultaneously I would understand that the Treasury Department, in their normal course, is managing their own distribution of maturities. Is that a feasible way for us to consider undoing it, if we wish to do that at some stage in the future.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement by Mr. Lockhart discussing the feasibility of a possible future action.


Passage number 38.
 MR. SACK. It is certainly operationally feasible, and maybe there would be a reason to consider that.  Thinking back to the staff discussions about the exit strategy, we didn’t see a  strong case for doing a reverse MEP under the view that, at the time you would want to be removing accommodation, you wouldn’t mind seeing the level of reserves going down as well. Of course, the MEP is designed to not further boost the level of reserves under the view that there is not a benefit of increasing reserves from here.  But on the flip side, when you are into your exit strategy, there may be benefits to get the reserves down. But if for some reason there wasn’t, if you wanted to maintain the size of the balance sheet or the level of reserves while reducing duration, it certainly could be done. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is discussing the operational feasibility and potential reasons for considering a reverse MEP. They weigh the potential benefits of reducing reserves during the exit strategy but also acknowledge that maintaining the size of the balance sheet while reducing duration is possible.


Passage number 39.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  And thank you, Brian.  You have given great service, and on a personal level, I have learned a tremendous amount from your briefings on an ongoing basis.  I have two questions.  The first question is about panel 14.  Do you have narratives from the survey about why the respondents felt that changing the balance sheet was so much more likely than changing rate guidance.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 40.
 MR. SACK.  We don’t have a good, complete narrative on that, but we certainly have a sense from our broader discussions with market participants.  I think there is a view that moving the rate guidance to late 2014 was already quite aggressive.  It is very hard to know how the forecast will unfold that far out, and there were questions about how meaningful providing a forecast beyond that into 2015 would be.  Having said that, I would note the responses would be consistent with the idea that the probability of a change in the rate guidance over the course of the next year goes up quite a bit.  As time marches on, and late 2014 gets closer, I think there is a perception of more scope to credibly give guidance into 2015.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is discussing the views and perceptions of market participants and acknowledges the uncertainty and difficulty in making forecasts for the future. There is no mention of conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 41.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you.  And my second question is about the very low level of the term premium.  I would guess—and you can inform me if I am right or wrong on   this—that there would be information in option markets about how traders view the probability of a reversal of the low term premium, and are we seeing anything in those markets to indicate that that is more likely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is asking a question and seeking clarification from the listener.


Passage number 42.
 MR. SACK. Obviously, we don’t have a market reading on the term premium itself.  We have an options market on longer-term interest rates that allows us to assess the perceived skew around longer-term interest rates.  And, indeed, swaptions suggest that the skew has moved up meaningfully in the direction of higher odds of an increase in interest rates. I think that is actually a natural reaction in the market as rates get to unusually low levels and the downside of the distribution is limited.  There has generally been a greater market perception of at least a larger risk of an increase in rates.  But of course all of those risks are embedded in the yield, so this is about the shape of the perceived risk around that yield.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing an analysis of the options market and the perception of risk in interest rates. They acknowledge that there is a greater market perception of a risk of an increase in rates, but also note that this is reflected in the yield.


Passage number 43.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes.  But this will give us some information about a low probability but still-possible event of rapid reversals.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not present any contention or disagreement. It is stating a fact about the possible occurrence of rapid reversals.


Passage number 44.
 MR. SACK.  Correct. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. It consists of a statement and a response that acknowledges the statement as correct.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 45.
 MR. PLOSSER.  Yes.  Brian, the previous time when we engaged in our MEP, we had some discussion about the fact that this was, in part, a fiscal action, and that the debt management policies of the Treasury would matter in terms of the results. My question is, as we think forward to consideration of another MEP action over the coming months that is much smaller in size, there also has been a lot of discussion about what the debt management policies of the Treasury are going to be going forward, whether they are going to push out their duration in the process.  Have we had any conversations with the Treasury. Alternatively, what is the implicit assumption here about what the Treasury is going to do with its debt management   policies that may or may not impact how we think about some kind of an extension of the program.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is some contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker, Mr. Plosser, is questioning whether the debt management policies of the Treasury will have an impact on the results of the proposed MEP action. He is wondering if any conversations have taken place with the Treasury or if there is an assumption being made about their future debt management policies. This suggests that there may be differing opinions or uncertainty about the potential impact of the Treasury's actions.


Passage number 46.
 MR. SACK. Yes, I did reach out to Mary Miller at the Treasury to get a sense of how it may react to this type of option, because this option would have meaningful debt management consequences as early as the beginning of July.  That conversation suggested that there would be no meaningful change in debt management practices in response to an additional maturity extension program.  What happens is the Treasury would lose the rollovers that it was getting to the Fed, so it somehow have to make up for that financing by issuing more debt to the market.  The indication was it would initially do all of that adjustment through bills.  Treasury coupon sizes have been stable for some time. It wants to maintain that stability, and its bill issuance has actually been low relative to coupon issuance, so it would make it up through bills.  But what we would assume is, over time, it would work its way into the Treasury’s broader debt management strategy and result in it issuing more duration over time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply explaining the potential consequences of an additional maturity extension program and how it would impact the Treasury's debt management practices. There is no conflicting viewpoint or argument presented.


Passage number 47.
 MR. PLOSSER. What is your understanding of what the Treasury’s debt management strategy is going forward, in terms of both its duration plans and issuance, over the next six months, let’s say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for the other person's understanding or knowledge of the Treasury's debt management strategy.


Passage number 48.
 MR. SACK. We have talked about this before at this table, and I haven’t learned anything new since then.  My understanding is its strategy is to continue lengthening the average maturity of their debt.  In fact, the decisions it has already made will keep it on an upward trajectory for some time.  And to be honest, it sounds like there is some uncertainty about how far it will go, when it will top that out.  The average maturity is going to get up to or maybe above the typical range that we have seen historically. It has already gone a long distance, and it is not entirely clear just how far it goes. But as has been pointed out before, the course that the   Treasury has been on is in no way driven by the monetary policy decisions made at this table.  We tend to think of our programs having effects around that course in terms of removing duration that would have been there without our operations. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Any other questions for Brian. [No response]  Okay.  We need a vote to ratify domestic open market operations.  No objection. [No response] We had a second vote to approve the two amendments to domestic authorization.  Brian gave an explanation.  Are there any questions or comments on that. [No response]  All right.  Seeing none, I take it no objection to approving those. [No response]  Okay. I understand lunch is ready.  Why don’t we take 30 minutes for lunch, and start up again around 1:35.  Thank you. [Lunch recess] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  Why don’t we reconvene. The Vice Chair reminds me to tell you that Simon Potter’s appointment will not be public until Thursday afternoon, so please keep that confidential until then.  Reconvening, we are now at item 5, Economic and Financial Situation, and I will call on David Bowman to introduce the staff presentation.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 49.
 MR. TARULLO.  Thank you.  When we release the projections with the minutes, is everything in here. What is in this packet that is not in the publicly released summary. MS. MEADE.  The scatter plot in exhibit 3 is not.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage simply describes the contents of a packet and mentions that the scatter plot in exhibit 3 is not included in the publicly released summary. There is no contention or disagreement expressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 50.
 MR. TARULLO.  Okay, good.  That relieves my concern.  I am sure it has occurred to all of you before—but somehow I was slow, and it only occurred to me this time—that when we compare GDP or unemployment or PCE inflation levels at different stages of liftoff, they are not a comparison of like factors, right. Because my assumption would be that if we go three more years with this kind of economic growth, or lack thereof, structural unemployment really will be higher than it is today.  I just wanted to make sure that the unemployment number associated with the boxes in particular is not being compared directly with those reflected in the triangles.  That’s all. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Are there any other questions about the projections.  [No response]  Okay, other questions.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage indicates that Mr. Tarullo has a realization about the comparison of GDP, unemployment, and PCE inflation levels at different stages of liftoff. He expresses concern and asks for confirmation that the unemployment number associated with the boxes is not being compared directly with those reflected in the triangles. This suggests a disagreement or contention regarding the comparison of these factors.


Passage number 51.
VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  That was a lot of material to digest, and you very much focused on the key issues.  It’s the first time I can remember that the international piece came first, which I think tells you that it is the number one risk. I have two general sets of questions, one on Europe and one on the fiscal cliff.  On Europe, I want to understand what has changed.  Is it that what before was a big downside risk wasn’t part of the central forecast.  Now some more things have happened that morphed the situation over the threshold, so that now it is in the central forecast.  Or did something material happen in Europe between the April meeting and today. I’m trying to get a sense of whether the shift is being driven mainly by a small change in Europe that just tips you over the line or something more major that happened in Europe.  That is my first question.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply asking for clarification and more information on the topic of Europe and its potential impact on the central forecast.


Passage number 52.
 MR. BOWMAN. A couple of things happened.  We did get macrodata for April and May. And whereas the first quarter was fairly good, the April and May data clearly show them again on the downtrend.  So part of the markdown, certainly in the near term, is the result of incoming data.  The other thing that has occurred—it was already occurring at the time of the April FOMC, but it is now fairly clear—is that financial conditions have gotten worse.  The risk of a Greek exit probably seems clearer.  We had the Greek elections—Greek election one and then Greek election two. We’ve gotten other data for Spain that show the deposit outflows that I talked about.  We had the news about Bankia; the amount of funds that it would need was a good deal more than people thought, and now it will be in the lending program for their banks.  So a number of factors have worsened, and I think they brought that tail that we always knew was out there a bit closer in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating various events and data that have occurred, without expressing any conflicting opinions or arguments.


Passage number 53.
 MR. KAMIN.  If I could just add to those remarks on the issue of the new developments.  Back when conditions worsened in European markets between the March and April Tealbooks,   we had to decide whether this was something that actually had legs, or were we looking at normal volatility in markets.  And so we worsened our forecast maybe a little bit in the April Tealbook but didn’t do a lot.  As financial conditions deteriorated between the April Tealbook and now, we recognized that a dynamic had now set in, in which the markets were going to continue to get worse until there was a very concerted policy response on the part of the European authorities. And that became particularly evident as we passed two events that in principle could have heartened markets—the June 9 package for Spanish banks, and then, more recently, the election for Greece.  There, it was pretty obvious that the market bounce, if there was any, was incredibly short-lived.  So it became much more apparent to us that basically the dynamic had set in, and the situation was going to get worse until something made it get better.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 54.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So it is now sort of the central baseline as opposed to something that was a risk that might or might not materialize.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that something has shifted from being perceived as a risk to becoming a central baseline.


Passage number 55.
 MR. KAMIN.  Right.  But to be clear, the central baseline is one of mounting financial stresses that eventually will become severe enough to prompt a fairly aggressive European response.  The central baseline is not the meltdown scenario that is in the Tealbook alternative, or the more advanced stresses that David referred to in his discussion.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any explicit contention or disagreement. It is providing clarification about the central baseline scenario and differentiating it from other scenarios.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 56.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Understood.  The second question I had was on the fiscal cliff. From my perspective, it seems like you have an awfully mild impact of plunging over the fiscal cliff, especially given that you are at the zero bound with no ability to offset the fiscal cliff through monetary policy and the rest of the world is very weak.  You have the European economy in contraction.  For the U.S. economy you have a big fiscal contraction along with presumably a big confidence effect because if you plunge off the fiscal cliff, it is not just plunging off the fiscal cliff, but also a tremendous loss of confidence in the political process in the United States.  The CBO had, I think, a mild recession in 2013 but a deeper one than what you have.  And CBO was assuming that, absent any fiscal contraction, the economy would be growing 4.4 percent in calendar year 2013.  I’m curious why plunging off the fiscal cliff in your view isn’t more negative than what you had.  It seemed an awfully mild effect.  I wouldn’t want the Congress getting its hands on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention in the passage. The speaker is expressing disagreement with the perspective given on the impact of plunging off the fiscal cliff. They believe that the consequences would be more severe than what is being suggested.


Passage number 57.
 MR. LEBOW.  I can mention one thing regarding the comparison of our estimates with the CBO’s.  If you look at the effects that we built in over the course of 2013 and 2014 combined, compared with CBO’s assumptions, they are actually quite similar.  However, our models assume a gradual spending response to the tax-change parts of the fiscal cliff.  The CBO was assuming a much faster spending response, so it has a bigger hit concentrated right at the beginning of 2013 than we do.  That is the more important reason for the difference between our assessment and CBO’s assessment.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is simply explaining the differences between the estimates made by MR. LEBOW and the CBO. There is no contention or disagreement stated.


Passage number 58.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So the saving rate drops a lot in the way that you set it up.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any disagreement or contention. It is just stating that the saving rate drops significantly based on the way it is set up, without any conflicting opinions.


Passage number 59.
 MR. LEBOW.  Yes.  The CBO’s estimates are reasonable. Obviously, ours are our best shot, but they could be larger than we have built in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that the CBO's estimates are reasonable and only suggests that their own estimates could be larger than what they have currently included.


Passage number 60.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Okay. Fair enough. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not contain any statements that suggest contention or disagreement. It consists of three short sentences agreeing or accepting a previous statement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 61.
 MR. EVANS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Two questions.  What is the Tealbook scenario for Europe going out two to three years.  What I have in mind is that the periphery countries are clearly not competitive, and they need some type of devaluation, which currently is being pursued as an internal devaluation along with austerity programs.  It is not hard to speculate that this is going to lead to political turmoil and be largely unsuccessful in most of those countries.  At any rate, one bookended alternative for Greece and other countries is exiting the euro and see how things play out afterwards.  The other end of the bookshelf is full fiscal union where the northern European countries and core Europe agree to some sort of transfers. That seems likely to lead to political turmoil, too, among a different segment of the populace.  And so I am wondering if somewhere in between is there an intermediate set of outcomes that are sustainable over some two-, three-, or five-year period; how does the situation play out, or is that the empty set.  You have to be thinking about this in your outlook.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting two conflicting alternatives - the possibility of Greece and other countries exiting the euro, or the idea of a fiscal union with transfers from northern European countries. These alternatives are seen as potentially leading to political turmoil and are presented as opposing choices. The speaker is asking if there is a middle ground or intermediate set of outcomes that could be sustainable.


Passage number 62.
 MR. BOWMAN. Yes, we are. On the empty set part, I guess we will see over time.  But our baseline is—assuming that stresses will get worse this year—that if Italy or Spain, or both, need programs, they will get programs, and that will take them out of the market.  They won’t need to borrow at that point if the firewall prevails.  And we assume, even if the current level isn’t enough, that in a severe enough situation they would politically just simply raise the size of the firewall.  And at that point, with whoever needs to be out of the market for at least a bit, stresses will gradually decline, though not overnight.  That’s one reason why our 2013 forecast is a lot worse than many others—we have these stresses only gradually declining over time, although they do decline in our baseline going out to 2014.  We assume that over that timeframe the moves toward fiscal and financial union will gradually increase and that these governments will be able to improve their fiscal situations.  So that by the end of 2014, we’ve got overall a better situation in which the fiscal outlook has improved for these countries, the move toward a more sensible monetary union is probably in progress, and then we see not stunning economic growth but moderate growth in 2014 and going forward.  That’s the basic scenario.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is presenting their assumptions and forecasts regarding the situation in Italy and Spain.


Passage number 63.
 MR. EVANS.  When I’m in public and I get that type of question, I also try to provide that type of hopeful response.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating their personal approach to answering a certain type of question in public.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 64.
   MR. BOWMAN. We talked about the risks to this.  They are palpable.  We are assuming that Ireland and Portugal will need further programs.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage suggests that there is disagreement or contention about whether Ireland and Portugal will need further programs. The phrase "We are assuming" indicates that there may be differing opinions about this matter.


Passage number 65.
 MR. KAMIN. The only point I would add—just to make it seem like we are not just giving you the same PR [laughter] as the people you are talking to—is that this outlook that we have written down for the euro area is actually very bleak.  What we have written down is that after a couple of years of recession, economic growth in 2014 will be 1 percent. And that is for the euro area in aggregate, which is the combination of Germany doing okay and France doing not horrible, and the peripheral economies going into very steep recessions.  Our baseline actually encompasses a pretty prolonged period of very lackluster economic growth, something that is shorter than Japan, but that might be the way to think about it.  This is an outlook that we think is not politically impossible and not financially impossible, but it is by no means desirable, and it is not particularly sanguine.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating their perspective on the bleak economic outlook for the euro area.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 66.
 MR. EVANS.  The other question I had was related to the Tealbook’s long-term outlook, where you extend it to 2017.  I notice that your projection had a feature that my own projections had, which I can’t bring myself to change.  First, let me say that I thought that Tealbook B, was extraordinarily innovative this time because you showed some additional simulations of FRB/US with different loss functions and weights on the dual mandate: resource slack and inflation goals.  And so when I looked at the optimal control response, which is solving the optimization in the spirit that it is meant to be solved—that is what I can’t bring myself to do—it ends up providing more accommodative policy for a longer period of time in a way that has inflation going above the 2 percent objective for some noticeable and meaningful period.  And that is true using the standard weights, but it was true even when you put a very small weight on the unemployment leg. It was also true for the nominal income targeting, but that is not related to the optimality. Inmy opinion, it looks to me like this shows that any real attempt to do the optimal with regard to dual mandate objectives is going to lead to some ex ante expectation that inflation is going to go above that 2 percent threshold.  But I can’t bring myself to put that particular inflation path into my projections.  Like the long-term outlook, I have inflation going up to 2 percent. Isn’t there a tension in all of this.  I mean, there must be something else at work in the Tealbook.  Is the answer that you’re not doing optimal policy there.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker (Mr. Evans) disagrees with the projections and approach of the Tealbook's long-term outlook. He believes that the optimal policy would result in inflation going above the 2 percent objective, but he is unable to include that in his own projections. He questions whether there is something else at work in the Tealbook's approach.


Passage number 67.
 MR. WILCOX.  Yes. The long-run outlook is governed by the estimated outcome-based rule, and we tie ourselves to that quite mechanically and allow the FRB/US dynamics to play out.  So the medium-term outlook is a judgmental outlook.  At the end of the medium-term period, we hand over the projections to the model, which we tried to tailor in some ways so that its dynamics more closely resemble what we think the analytics of the staff projection are. That being said, from the beginning of the long-term period out, it is quite a mechanical exercise, and monetary policy is represented by the estimated outcome-based rule.  In some sense, this is just what is ground out by that process.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a straightforward explanation of how the long-term outlook is determined by the estimated outcome-based rule and the use of the FRB/US dynamics.


Passage number 68.
 MR. EVANS.  Right.  So it looks like a rule that is not really grounded in any sort of optimality with respect to the objective function that the policymakers have.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that a certain rule does not appear to be optimized according to the objective function of the policymakers. This is a statement of observation or analysis rather than a conflicting viewpoint.


Passage number 69.
 MR. WILCOX.  That’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The statement made by Mr. Wilcox is simply agreeing or confirming something.


Passage number 70.
 MR. EVANS. And something that is grounded in the objective function, even with a low weight on the resource slack, would tend to have more accommodation and, ex ante, run a risk that inflation would go above the target.  I mention this because, as I noted earlier, I think the Chairman does a fabulous job of fielding tremendously difficult questions in the press conference, and this is a question that he has gotten, at least for the past several press conferences.  And I thought this was very helpful. Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It primarily consists of the speaker complimenting the Chairman for handling difficult questions and expressing gratitude for the information provided.


Passage number 71.
   MR. ENGLISH.  Just one other point, though, on the optimal control policy. It has a lot of assumptions buried in it that we have talked about before here about the credibility of the assumed future behavior of the Committee.  The Committee is assumed to be able to credibly commit to a path for the funds rate, and that path is believed by the public and taken into account by the public.  And so if you wondered about the ability of the Committee to make that commitment, or if you wondered whether—even if the Committee in some sense could commit to do that—it would be believed, then this may not be a trajectory that you could necessarily get to.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply raising potential concerns or doubts about the credibility and believability of the Committee's ability to make and stick to a certain trajectory for the funds rate.


Passage number 72.
 MR. EVANS.  Well, that is certainly true, but I don’t know how that cuts.  By “this,” do you mean it is not possible to push the inflation projection above 2 percent.  Or that taking into consideration those alternatives, you wouldn’t want to do that optimally. It just strikes me as odd. And other people who have looked at something like this might argue that when you are bringing the inflation projection in from below at a time when the resource slack objective is doing so badly, you would expect that you would do more.  And if I was running into some type of impediment along the lines of what you’re talking about, the optimal response might be to do something wildly more in order to overcome that. I’m not quite sure what.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Evans is expressing confusion and seeking clarification on a particular point, but there is no explicit disagreement or argument taking place.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 73.
 MR. ENGLISH.  But in the optimal control exercises all you can do is push back liftoff.  There aren’t additional balance sheet actions here, as I think President Bullard has said in the past. But if you don’t think you can credibly commit to a funds rate path way out, that may be an argument for doing balance sheet action.  That’s something you can do now, and it is credible. But if there are costs and risks associated with additional balance sheet action, you may be hesitant to do that.  So there are constraints on the ability of the Committee that are worth thinking about.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker, you had a two-hander.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker mentions the possibility of using balance sheet actions, which suggests a differing opinion or viewpoint compared to President Bullard who may have previously stated that there are no additional balance sheet actions.


Passage number 74.
 MR. LACKER.  Yes.  So the optimal control policy reaction function differs from what you would think best fits the recent past.  Am I right about that.  And if so, and then it represents a one-time change that is instantly fully credible.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no disagreement or contention in this passage. The speaker simply states a belief or observation without any contrasting opinion being presented.


Passage number 75.
 MR. ENGLISH. Yes, I think that’s right.  It represents a behavior that isn’t necessarily consistent with past behavior.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating agreement and supporting the idea presented.


Passage number 76.
 MR. LACKER.  It just has the past data, right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement followed by a question, without any conflicting opinions or opposing viewpoints.


Passage number 77.
 MR. EVANS.  That’s what Lucas critique issues are all about.  It is about trying to understand the structure of the economy, and then asking whether or not you somehow choose a policy that can achieve something different than ever has been achieved before, and then go out and sell it to people.  Just because it doesn’t fit, we routinely say, well, that is not structural.  The Lucas critique would say we shouldn’t give in to that.  This is just another variant of that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining the concept of "Lucas critique" and advocating for not giving in to dismissing ideas that do not fit the existing structure. There is no opposition mentioned or presented.


Passage number 78.
 MR. LACKER.  As you know, President Evans, this is the critique of the Lucas critique that Sims has raised—that one needs to be careful in drawing conclusions from a one-time perfectly credible policy change implemented in a model in the manner in which Lucas advocated. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  There could be simpler structural changes, though, in terms of the behavioral equations, for example.  The Taylor rule is just an empirically estimated relationship.  And if the economy has changed, it may no longer be close to optimal.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Lacker discussing a critique and suggesting alternative possibilities.


Passage number 79.
 MR. LACKER.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Bullard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage only includes a statement from Mr. Lacker and does not mention any opposition or disagreement.


Passage number 80.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I want to focus on the question of Greek exit.  I think we are throwing around the phrase “exit” very blithely here. What does exit actually mean.  And what can be achieved through exit.  As you know, there are two treaties in Europe for the EU and the EMU.  They have legal obligations within the European Union.  Greece could abrogate those treaties if it wanted to, because it’s a sovereign country, but that would have a lot of implications for the nation.  It probably would not want to go that route.  It is supposed to have renounced printing its own currency.  I could imagine, nevertheless, it printing its own currency and having dual currencies.  So I think there are a lot of issues here that suggest that exit is not nearly as clean an event.  It is not like you wake up one Monday morning, and you say, “Okay.  We have exited, and now we are going our separate ways.”  It is a more complicated thing than that.  That is one thing I want to get my head around—what you are thinking on that.  And the other is whether the more logical scenario is that there will just be ongoing restructuring of debt over several years, and so we gradually not pay a lot of the debt, or maybe all of the debt, for some of these countries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 81.
 MR. BOWMAN.  Right.  By “Greek exit,” we mean an exit of Greece from the euro area. It no longer uses the euro as its currency.  It is not part of the euro area.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply defines what is meant by "Greek exit" in reference to the euro area.


Passage number 82.
 MR. BULLARD.  So what does it mean.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The passage is simply presenting a question from Mr. Bullard.


Passage number 83.
 MR. BOWMAN.  All right.  As you probably know, there is no actual legal way to leave the euro area.  You can leave the EU, and the ECB has interpreted that as the only legal way that you can leave the euro area because you have to be a member of the EU to be in the euro area. It’s possible that Greece could in theory do it legally under the existing EU treaty, the Lisbon Treaty.  Now, to do that, you have to say you want to leave, and then there is a committee, and the EU makes a proposal, and hopefully you negotiate an exit.  And if after—I believe it’s two years or three years—they haven’t agreed, you get to leave anyway.  It’s possible they could speed that up, and it could all be done legally.  Other than that, you could invoke the Vienna Convention, or you could simply not invoke any law, just simply leave—impose capital controls, impose a bank holiday, redenominate outside of the EU treaties.  They wouldn’t really have a way to stop that.  We don’t think it would be in any way clean for Greece; it would be a horrible disaster. In past currency union breakups, they have been able to do it over the weekend or over a week.  You just stamp the old currency and use that.  Now, we are in an electronic age. It is questionable whether they could really do it over the weekend or over a week.  This is a country that can’t really collect taxes—can’t determine how many swimming pools people have—and the thought that it could really have a solid set of capital controls that would stop the euros from leaving is not very plausible either.  We don’t think that it would be in any way clean.  We think it would be a big mess for Greece and potentially quite frightening to everybody else, but particularly quite a big mess for some of the other countries as people witnessed what was happening in Greece. But we are distinguishing that from a situation where it stays within the euro area but either defaults or simply sort of defaults by pushing back the amount that it pays over time.  That is not what we mean by Greek exit. Does that make sense.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 84.
 MR. BULLARD.  What is not what you mean by Greek exit.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage simply asks for clarification on the meaning of a term or phrase. It does not involve any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 85.
 MR. BOWMAN.  Something where Greece stays within the euro area. It continues to use the euro, but it defaults on part of its debt to the public sector or the public sector simply forgives some of it over time or just keeps pushing back the payment so that they are effectively forgiving some of the time, but that is not what we mean by exit.  Those things can be messy, too.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is providing a suggestion or potential solution for Greece to stay within the euro area while defaulting on part of its debt.


Passage number 86.
   MR. BULLARD.  Is that the baseline scenario, what you just described.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Bullard is simply seeking clarification on whether the scenario described is the baseline scenario.


Passage number 87.
 MR. BOWMAN. You mean where it stays in the euro area.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage is a direct statement, without any indication of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 88.
 MR. BULLARD.  Stays in the euro but really restructures a default in various ways—by delaying payment, let’s say.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The statement in the passage is simply suggesting a possible scenario for restructuring a default in the euro. There is no clear indication of contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 89.
 MR. BOWMAN. That would depend on what the rest of the euro area does in response to that default.  If, while Greece is still running primary deficits, the euro area just cut off all payments, the banks would probably collapse anyway, right.  Greece could be facing a very severe recession even under those conditions.  It is matter of debate whether at that point it would be better off leaving the euro area and letting its currency depreciate a lot or trying to stay in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It presents different possible scenarios and their potential consequences, but there is no explicit or implicit disagreement among the speakers.


Passage number 90.
 MR. BULLARD.  There is huge support for staying in.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that there is huge support for staying in.


Passage number 91.
 MR. BOWMAN.  There is.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is identified as "Mr. Bowman," but no conversation or statement is provided to indicate any disagreement or contention.


Passage number 92.
 MR. BULLARD.  And I think especially for the European Union.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion about the importance of a certain issue.


Passage number 93.
 MR. KAMIN.  Just to be clear about our Tealbook baseline forecast, we are not assuming that Greece will stay in the euro area forever or even assuming that it stays in through the forecast period.  Our assumption, which is a little subtle, is that basically we do not expect Greece to leave the euro area within the next couple of months.  On the one hand, if it did leave the euro area that quickly, we think that could be enormously disruptive both within Greece and outside for all of the reasons that we’ve talked about. But for the reasons that you and David have just talked about, we don’t think it’s that plausible that they would, indeed, want to or be able to leave the euro area that quickly.  So the most likely chain of events that would lead to a Greek exit is one where the Greek government starts negotiating again with the European Union because the current terms of the bailout   package are viewed as too tight.  Greece wants a little bit more time to achieve the fiscal goals, maybe a little bit more money, a little bit less need to repay.  That set of negotiations could take weeks or months.  If negotiations break down for any number of reasons, at that point, there is some period of indeterminacy, perhaps followed by Greece missing a payment to the EU because it has to repay the European authorities starting with a big payment in August.  Then at some point maybe there is an actual default, and they are declared outside of compliance with the program.  Then, if deposit runs have not started already, they start in earnest, and the ECB decides it cannot provide any more cash to meet that run.  As things get worse, the Greek government freezes the banks, declares a banking holiday, and imposes capital controls.  Some number of months down the road, then it might say, “Geez, adopting the drachma and getting rid of the euro is probably our best option because we are practically at a barter economy already.” That is the chain of events that could lead to a Greek exit, but it is not something that we think will happen overnight.  If that does happen, we think that by the time Greece actually leaves, European policymakers probably will be ready for it, and it could happen without huge disruptions to the European and global financial system.  That is a scenario that is very broadly within the confines of our baseline, albeit at the most pessimistic end of it. If a year from now Greece were not in the euro area, that outcome, indeed, could be encompassed within our Tealbook baseline.  On the other hand, if it somehow decided to leave tomorrow or next week, that would not be encompassed in our baseline. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.  I have President Fisher, Governor Raskin, and President Kocherlakota, and I would urge us to move on after that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is explaining their assumption about Greece leaving the euro area and the potential chain of events that could lead to it. They also mention that if Greece were to leave tomorrow or next week, it would not be encompassed in their baseline forecast.


Passage number 94.
 MR. FISHER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To reflect, I was happy to see the international side lead the presentation, although the report was not very uplifting.  And, toinclude Michael’s presentation on credit conditions and financial stability was a welcome addition.  It is the first time we have really gone through it during this presentation and not separately.  I want to thank you for that.  Just three quick points on your risk asset values.  You talk about institutional investors having an appetite for corporate credit. In talking to CEOs that are running companies that are high-dividend yielders, I am hearing an increasing incidence of bond funds approaching them to capture their dividends.  Now, whether or not their legal charters allow it, whether they can hedge away the price risk—nonetheless there is a lot of exploratory activity.  I just wanted to add these conditions as something to watch.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker expresses gratitude for the presentation and adds some additional points to consider.


Passage number 95.
 MR. PALUMBO.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement "Thank you" is a courteous response to a prior statement, indicating agreement or expressing appreciation.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 96.
 MR. FISHER.  With regard to the presentation on inflation projections, are the projections of crude oil prices in exhibit 8 just the futures curve as usual or is that a qualitative estimate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. 

Explanation: The passage suggests that there may be a disagreement or lack of clarity regarding the source or nature of the inflation projections for crude oil prices. The phrase "just the futures curve as usual" implies that there may be differing opinions on whether the projections solely rely on past trends or if there is a qualitative estimate involved.


Passage number 97.
 MR. LEBOW.  We did not follow the futures curve exactly.  We make some adjustment to the futures curve based on our estimate of the implicit economic forecast among market participants.  If that differs from ours, for us to be internally consistent you would want to make some adjustment to the futures curve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: In this passage, Mr. Lebow is explaining how their approach differed from following the futures curve exactly. He mentions that they make adjustments based on their estimate of the implicit economic forecast among market participants. However, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage, as Mr. Lebow is simply stating their own methodology for adjusting the futures curve to ensure internal consistency.


Passage number 98.
 MR. BOWMAN.  That’s correct.  We look at the staff forecast versus consensus, assuming that we’re right and they’re wrong.  If we are more pessimistic, then we would expect commodity prices to fall as financial market participants learned over time that they had been too optimistic; we also correct for our forecast of movements in the dollar.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is presenting a method used by Mr. Bowman to analyze staff forecast and consensus. There is no indication of contention or disagreement within the passage.


Passage number 99.
 MR. FISHER.  Again, for what it is worth, these are just pixels in a broader picture of the people that I talk to, but it is in accordance to what I’m hearing from the Exxons and so on.  The Saudis are very pleased with the current price range, and of course, you have this enormous production surge here in the United States as well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage states that the Saudis are pleased with the current price range and acknowledges the increase in production in the United States. There is no disagreement or contention presented.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 100.
 MR. BOWMAN.  Yes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. This can be inferred from the presence of the word "yes" in Mr. Bowman's response. However, without further context, it is not possible to determine the specific nature of the contention or disagreement.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 101.
 MR. FISHER.  The third point goes back to the international side.  What I am hearing from nonfinancial business operators is, of course, a concern about Europe because of all the uncertainty.  But I am also hearing increasing concern about China, and that goes to your second line of exhibit 3 of the charts.  And to go back to your expression, does this have legs. If you travel through the peripheral countries to China, Indonesia, all the way to Japan and Korea, or you visit with people like Lee Kuan Yew, in Singapore, there is a deep concern over China right now, much deeper than seems to be reflected in the numbers.  And I am just wondering— because we have tended to be a little bit more negative in the Tealbook, which is good because you have been right.  We know that there is a knock-on effect from Europe.  We can see a diminution in trans-Pac cargo flows from air or sea.  How bad do you think things are in China. Are they getting dramatically worse, or is it something we just need to monitor carefully.  What I am worried about is that Europe is a much-discussed risk factor, but I want to make sure we are not taking our eye off the Chinese ball, which seems to be increasingly complicated and more difficult.  So any comments on China.  And I know that the Chairman wants to pick up the pace here, but if you could do that quickly, thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: The passage includes statements expressing concern about both Europe and China, indicating some level of disagreement or contention about the severity of the risks associated with each region. The mention of different perspectives from nonfinancial business operators and the Tealbook suggests differing opinions on the matter.


Passage number 102.
 MR. BOWMAN.  Well, as we discussed, we believe that the risk of a hard landing has increased in China.  We did want to give ample room to China in my presentation, and the April and May data were unquestionably weaker than we had expected and, I think, than markets expected. And the real estate sector has been the source of potential risk for some time, and it is the source of concern.  Indicators, like the one I showed on the amount of unsold inventory, are a   worry, and there have been reports for a long time that real estate developers could be highly overexposed, which would then feed back to the banking system and feed into the nonperforming loans.  The Chinese authorities, to some extent, have attempted to engineer a housing slowdown, so the price declines that we have seen so far have been gradual and largely seem to have been desired on the part of the government.  Right now we don’t see a severe contraction in real estate, but we are not trying to downplay the potential risks.  On the other side, though, we believe that the Chinese authorities have ample room to increase monetary or fiscal policy stimulus if there does appear to be a sharp slowing in economic growth.  In particular, in a year in which a political transition is going to take place, they have a lot of incentives not to see a sharp slowdown in economic growth. So we see slowing as a risk.  We don’t think a sharp contraction is under way right now, and we do have some faith that there is ample room for policy stimulus.  It is not our baseline, but we do acknowledge that the risk has increased.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any clear contention or disagreement. The author discusses their belief that there is an increased risk of a hard landing in China and the potential risks in the real estate sector, but also acknowledges that the Chinese authorities have ample room for policy stimulus.


Passage number 103.
 MR. KAMIN.  And, in fact, if we did not think it was an important risk, we would not have put it as an alternative scenario in the Tealbook, which we have.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It states a fact about the Tealbook without any opposing viewpoints or conflicting opinions.


Passage number 104.
 MR. FISHER.  The only other suggestion I have is next time, Mike, when you make a presentation just conclude with, “Have a nice day.”  [Laughter] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  On that note, Governor Raskin. MS. RASKIN. Back to the fiscal cliff.  Is the question of the debt ceiling either built into the baseline or into the alternative simulation. It wasn’t clear to me what the Tealbook assumes about what I would imagine would be the confidence-deflating effects of a prolonged debt ceiling debate.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 105.
 MR. LEBOW.  Well, even in the baseline we do have some confidence effect built in associated with the fact that our baseline fiscal assumptions are consistent with there being some delays and some degree of brinksmanship, and so on.  So we did build in some sentiment effect for that around the turn of the year, but we are not assuming any particular effect on consumer confidence from the debt ceiling.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker explains that they have built in a sentiment effect related to delays and brinksmanship in the baseline fiscal assumptions, but they are not assuming any particular effect on consumer confidence from the debt ceiling.


Passage number 106.
 MR. WILCOX.  The fiscal situation could be even worse.  We have assumed that somewhere along the line, with all of the legislative vehicles that are going to have to move through the Congress, that there will be an increase in the debt ceiling along with appropriations or some other vehicle that will avert default on the U.S. debt.  Even in our fiscal cliff scenario, we assume that the debt gets taken care of. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply discussing an assumption regarding the fiscal situation and the likelihood of the debt being taken care of.


Passage number 107.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I will forgo the pleasures of getting involved in the discussion between President Evans and President Lacker until later. I read through chart 12 and listened to the, as usual, excellent financial stability report with an eye to the following question.  I think you amply describe the risks that are emerging in Europe, and that we should be concerned about them.  I’m puzzled by why we don’t see more of an imprint of those risks in U.S. asset markets.  I look at just one picture out of very many things that we look at, the chart in the upper right in exhibit 12 showing the equity options-implied cost of insurance—these are exactly the kind of things I like to look at—and I do not see a big change since January in that at all. If I look at VIX, I don’t know what it is today, but yesterday it was basically the same as in January.  I wonder what your thoughts are on that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 108.
 MR. PALUMBO. It is puzzling actually.  Given the proximity of these tail events especially, I would have thought we’d see a much more elevated VIX.  When we were puttingthis together last week, the VIX was hovering in the mid-20s.  That seemed low but not outside the realm, and then subsequently the VIX moved down to 18 against nothing that I could see or even hear—there wasn’t even chatter about solace over the Greek election. It wasn’t as if there was delusion in the reports.  They seemed to be negative and dire and focused on the adverse scenarios, but not showing up in the VIX.  All I can say is it’s not the first time. The VIX can— as you made clear in your speech two weeks ago—provide good information that we try to cull to get color on what investors are thinking in the tails.  But the VIX is not a terrific forecaster of what’s going to happen.  In the summer of 2008 there were plenty of days when the VIX was trading in the 18s, more days when it was trading in the 18s than in the 30s.   I think it is just one of those things where, as Brian put it, we view financial markets as in a fragile state. When you look at the liquidity reports that you are hearing about short-term funding markets, those stresses seem to be getting a little worse day by day by day, even as measures like the VIX and the overall stock price index are actually reversing course.  So I do think there is an uncomfortable tension here, and at this point, I don’t really take much solace from those latest moves.  Right now it’s in the puzzle bucket as opposed to having relieved some tension, but we will just have to keep an eye on it. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Thank you for your presentation.  Nellie, did you have a comment. MS. LIANG.  I just wanted to add one point to that.  One of the issues we have raised was the current level of downside risk versus, say, last October.  And as we pointed out, it seems as if before the LTROs or the ECB was willing to demonstrate that they were willing to take action, there was a little more uncertainty in the markets.  However, these options prices were just volatile, and, as you can see there, there was both upside risk and downside risk.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is discussing observations and opinions about market volatility and the VIX index, but there is no clear contention or disagreement between the speakers.


Passage number 109.
  MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Right. MS. LIANG.  So as Michael was saying, it is hard to read all of this from the VIX.  But if you just think about the overall level, once the ECB demonstrated it was willing to take some steps, like the LTROs, that may have been the reason for some of what seems to be a little bit less anxiety in the U.S. financial markets.  The other piece I might mention is the banking system.  I think the CCAR might get some credit for taking out anxiety about the banks themselves. It is not the answer to everything, but it did work through a European scenario.  At least for credit losses it appears they’ve got sufficient capital to withstand what looks like a pretty bad recession.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 110.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Those are very helpful interpretations.  I had mentioned the VIX, but if you go through the entire book it is hard to pinpoint big changes. MS. LIANG.  Absolutely.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no clear contention or disagreement in the passage. Both speakers agree that there are no big changes that can be pinpointed throughout the entire book, which suggests a common understanding.


Passage number 111.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  But I think those are very helpful interpretations.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  On this general topic we have an item now, which is called an opportunity to talk about financial stability issues, either to continue the discussion or to raise issues that didn’t come up in discussion.  And I have President Rosengren.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It is a statement of appreciation and an invitation to continue discussing financial stability issues.


Passage number 112.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  My question emanates from exhibit 10 on the 5-year CDS with a list of firms.  I know I talked a little bit about this last time, but looking at the broker–dealer CDS from the largest banks, particularly Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, if I were asked what stress scenario that I would do if I were a risk manager at a large bank, it would be a Greek exit that’s not as managed as Steve highlighted, combined with a run on Morgan Stanley whose credit default swaps are quite elevated at this time.  In addition, they are likely to be downgraded.  We do not know by how much, and it might be coincident withproblems in Greece and Spain.  So you can easily tell a story where you start having a very serious disruption in wholesale credit that is very focused particularly on one very large institution.  The questions I have for you are:  How would you view the likelihood of that kind of scenario.  How far out in the tail do you view it. And if it were to occur, can the primary dealer credit facility be focused.  You could offer it to everybody, but if only Morgan Stanley showed up, would that be a problem for how we have been instructed to do 13(3) type of facilities. MS. LIANG. Picking up where David and Steve were in terms of our Tealbook forecast, and in some sense probably where the central tendency of your forecast is, the exit you are raising is a disorderly exit, not an exit that might be several months down the road and might have some backstops and might involve Spain and Italy getting some support from some programs.  This one is clearly, in our view, less likely—I almost hesitate to say that. It is a more disruptive one, and one we are considering not within the Tealbook forecast. We have an internal staff working group that is considering a number of alternative scenarios so that we can think through where the stresses are—the weak points, the operational choke points, so to speak—if you had something disorderly and you started to get runs on certain institutions.  To get a sense of what the disruption to the system could be, we are working through various scenarios to help identify which institutions may be able to handle a re-denomination quickly and smoothly, which ones cannot, and what kinds of contingencies they are planning for.  The idea would be to identify actions we could take now to mitigate the bad consequences if they were unexpected. That work is in early, early stages. These are tough scenarios, and we haven’t thought through all of the consequences.  You have mentioned concerns about broker–dealers in the past, and they obviously do not have direct access to the discount window; 23A is a little bit stricter than it used to be pre-Dodd–Frank, and as you just mentioned the 13(3) authorities are somewhat more limited.  Scott would have to address the issue you raise that if only one came, would that meet our standard.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speakers are discussing potential scenarios and considering the likelihood and potential consequences of a Greek exit from the Eurozone.


Passage number 113.
 MR. ALVAREZ.  I appreciate the opportunity to talk at the FOMC meeting.  It doesn’t happen very often for lawyers.  [Laughter] The 13(3) authority is really much stricter now, and the difficulty we have is that while the facility has to be broad based in its eligibility, it cannot be for the purpose of aiding a single failing firm.  We can certainly set up a PDCF in a way that is broad based in its eligibility, but I think folks will be looking at the participation rate and the circumstances around setting up the facility in deciding whether or not it really is for the purpose of aiding a particular firm. I think that the risk is less a legal risk and more a political risk.  There is no requirement that more than one person actually access it, but clearly the Congress would be looking at how broad based the access is and how many people come to the facility. Indeed, the PDCF when we set it up the first time around had periods of time when only one firm went to the facility, though over a period of about nine months virtually all the firms used the facility.  How it is viewed is going to depend a lot on the facts and circumstances, and whether the scenario was bad enough that it is going to attract more than just one firm’s attention.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply providing information and discussing the potential risks and considerations related to the establishment of a PDCF (Primary Dealer Credit Facility).


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 114.
 MR. ROSENGREN. Just a follow-up; the other way you can address that is to price the facility so lots of people want to use it.  Even if it primarily is focused on a run at one firm, if it is very attractively priced, presumably lots of firms might show up, and it might offset some of the stigma, in some sense somewhat like the TAF was priced attractively enough that even people that didn’t necessarily need it would take advantage of it.  If you priced it very attractively so more people showed up, would that address that concern.  How does that factor into the decision of whether or not it is broad based.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker suggests that pricing the facility attractively could address concerns and attract more firms, potentially offsetting the stigma associated with the facility's focus on one firm. However, the passage does not provide a clear agreement or consensus on whether this approach would be effective or how it factors into the decision-making process.


Passage number 115.
MR. ALVAREZ.  Clearly, we will design it in a way so that it is broad based in its eligibility so that a group would be able to come—all the primary dealers, for example—and we think that is a broad enough group.  The point is that there will be a lot more political scrutiny about the facilities immediately upon their activation—something that we experienced somewhat in 2008, but I think we will experience more this time around. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: In this passage, Mr. Alvarez is discussing the design and eligibility of a facility, as well as predicting increased political scrutiny in the future. There is no disagreement or contention present.


Passage number 116.
 MR. FISHER.  By the way, Mr. Chairman, Vice Chairman Dudley, at a Conference of Presidents meeting a long, long time ago when we first embarked on it, said, “We will make money off these.”  No one believed him.  Now he has been proven right.  Thank you. I want to come back very quickly to U.S. asset valuations on junk bonds because, as you showed in your charts, the healthy issuance in the early part of the year has dried up, and the spreads have widened.  I’ve been worried about this, although I comfort myself in the fact that as a result of our policy, one could argue that if you’re high quality or just an A-rated investment credit, you can borrow five-year money at an all-in cost of around 1½ percent or seven-year money around 2 percent—that’s pretty darn attractive.  Should we worry about this widening in spreads. Is it signaling something, or is it just that basically investment grade credits have been improving their balance sheets and are much more attractive to finance. I think we’re outside of the historical norm in terms of the width of that spread, and I’m just wondering what signals you’re picking up from that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement and a question from Mr. Fisher, and it does not present any conflicting viewpoints or arguments.


Passage number 117.
 MR. PALUMBO. One thing about the issuance, first.  Because a lot of this gross issuance has been for retiring existing debt, the net increase in debt almost throughout the credit spectrum has been much smaller.  Even in February and March when the high yield bonds were being issued at these strong paces, a lot of that was for retiring existing debt.  The gross numbers here are trying to give us a sense of investor appetite as much as for companies adding debt to their balance sheets—they grossly overstate how much debt is being added to the balance sheet.  In fact, I believe that the overall positions of net corporations, across size spectra and across credit ratings, are also below their historical norms.  And as you probably know, the default rates on the stock of junk bonds are actually quite moderate, especially given the state of macroeconomic performance.  The way I would think about the spreads is that there is a less-than-usual overall appetite for reaching down in the credit spectrum and that is evident in the price dimension.  Even so, pricing is clearly not so prohibitive, especially given the levels of yields; these are spreads relative to the lowest Treasury yields that we have ever seen.  I think it is conducive to fundraising in a way that is lowering debt burdens for most firms that are in the market, while satisfying some investor portfolios. In terms of the reach for yield, what we worry about are behaviors that are going outside the instruments and the practices that the money managers really have experience with managing.  The things we’re looking out for are slippages in covenants, which we haven’t seen very much to date or reaching across what seem to be securities and positions that are not in the manager’s own experience.  That’s the kind of thing that we haven’t seen too much of now, but we definitely hear about. Our sense is that with many institutional investors under tremendous  pressure to make nominal returns, there’s going to be a natural tendency for some of them to go beyond what they really have the capability to manage.  That’s what we’re trying to monitor in the aggregate.  We haven’t gotten to a stage that has us tremendously concerned, but we have to ask the questions and try to stay ahead of that. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Why don’t we break for coffee and come back in 20 minutes. [Coffee break] CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Welcome back.  We’re ready for our economic go-round, and we’ll start with President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. It is mainly a discussion of the current state of debt issuance and investor appetite in the credit market.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 118.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Since our previous meeting, there has been a notable change in the incoming data.  Concerns about a global slowdown and escalating European problems have caused Treasury rates here and in other safe havens to fall, oil prices to decline, and consumer and business confidence measures to retrace earlier gains. These trends are also reflected in my forecast, which envisions less business fixed investment and employment than I had in my April forecast.  Business fixed investment was already weakening before European problems heated up, and my contacts with businesses around the District indicate no desire to increase investment or hire more workers until the uncertainty in the outlook is reduced.  Because of concerns among some firms that have significant trade exposure to Europe and others who will be affected by reductions in federal research and military spending, many of my contacts are more focused on possible retrenchment than possible expansion.  I now forecast the unemployment rate to remain at or above 8 percent through 2013 and the total and core PCE inflation rates to remain below 2 percent.  These outcomes are achieved conditional on assumption of appropriate monetary policy that both extends Operation Twist and engages in additional purchases of mortgage-backed securities. However, even this gloomy forecast is conditioned on Europe avoiding a severe outcome that would undoubtedly spill over to the United States.  This assumption is consistent with enlightened self-interest in Europe and seems consistent with the results from the recent Greek election.  Nonetheless, this assumption is becoming harder to maintain.  In discussions with Europeans since our previous meeting, I have been struck by the hardening of their positions and the view that it was not whether but when Greece would not be able to satisfy the conditions for continued aid.  This is in sharp contrast to views being expressed by Europeans last year.  Despite their increasing resignation about Greece’s likely failure, few Europeans seemed confident that effective firewalls are being built. In safe havens around the world, longer-term interest rates have fallen below the inflation target set by the respective central banks. In the United States, the 10-year Treasury rate declined rapidly as Greek and Spanish problems escalated. For investors to purchase 10-yearTreasury securities well below our inflation target implies either significant skepticism that we will be hitting our inflation target or the expectation of a protracted period of a negative real policy rate, or both.  These assessments are, no doubt, motivated by financial market participants’ assessments of the probability and possible severity of unfolding European problems. Similarly, wages and compensation continue to surprise on the downside, highlighting that labor costs are likely to continue to be very well contained.  Firms are describing being inundated with qualified applicants, causing them to lower the entry-level wages they are offering.  Discussions with officials at colleges and universities in New England continue to highlight the very challenging hiring environment for new graduates.  Many new graduates are forced to accept underemployment to avoid unemployment. The domestic economy is not growing fast enough.  With global pressures likely to continue to impede growth, with increasing signs that we may significantly undershoot our inflation target, and with fiscal restraint likely to increase, we should provide more monetary support for the economy, a topic for discussion tomorrow.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage contains several indications of disagreement or contention. For example, there is disagreement among businesses about whether to increase investment or hire more workers, with many being more focused on retrenchment. Additionally, there is concern about the hardening of Europe's position and doubt about the effectiveness of firewalls being built. Finally, there is a difference in assessments between financial market participants and central banks about inflation targets and the severity of European problems.


Passage number 119.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  It’s my sense that this is an awkward juncture as regards evaluating the direction of the economy for policy purposes.  Even with a very modest number for economic growth in the first quarter, I would argue that a data-grounded forecast just a few weeks ago was decidedly more positive than now.  The situation seems to have changed noticeably in a short period of time.  This is reflected in the Tealbook and, to a lesser extent, in my outlook.  The reason I think it’s an awkward moment is it is still early to draw conclusions about the persistence or temporary nature of the developments indicated in theweaker data.  In our recent discussions with directors and business contacts in my District, we probed for indications of slowdown, deteriorating outlook, change of business plans, and changing consumer behavior.  The results of these conversations suggest some amount of disconnect between how the economy feels on the ground and what the data indicate.  Reports from our business contacts remain mostly positive and suggestive of an economy that is still improving, if gradually.  There was broad acknowledgement of significant downside risks, but I detected no fundamental shifts in the consensus outlook. Consumer spending remains a mixed picture.  Auto sales and tourism-related spending remain strong.  Retail spending more generally is holding up but was characterized by most retailers as modestly positive.  A large restaurant management company reported that patronage had softened a bit, except for the highest-end format where receipts remained strong. A large national discount retailer targeting lower-income households reported strong sales reflecting their value proposition.  This firm intends to open a number of new stores.  My sense is that the mindset of consumers, if one can generalize, is they continue to spend with caution and purpose, increasing their credit load only when necessary to fulfill basic needs. Turning to business spending, the majority of respondents to our survey on capital expenditure plans signaled plans for modest increases over the next 6 to 12 months.  Most said their plans were based on higher sales expectations or the need to upgrade IT equipment.  Those not planning to increase spending cited greater uncertainty as the basis of their cautious approach to capital spending.  Continuing caution was also reflected in our contacts’ responses to questions about hiring plans.  A large national home improvement retailer said that while it is forecasting increasing sales, it does not plan to add to its workforce at all for the next three years.As regards inflation expectations, our June business inflation expectations survey shows a small decline in unit cost assumptions for the year ahead.  The slight moderation in cost expectations of businesses seems to be tied to the recent drop in commodity prices.  Commodity users talked about using this development as an opportunity to improve margins that were squeezed last year. Overall, firms continue to report modest gains in sales and orders, with little change in inflation sentiment.  The data suggest more weakness than we heard from contacts in my District. Turning to my assessment of the national economic outlook and my forecast for this meeting, I marked down my economic growth forecast in reaction to three developments:  softer-than-expected incoming data, a weaker global growth outlook, and uncertainty about the fiscal situation that won’t likely be resolved for several months.  The broad contours of my forecast resemble the Tealbook, but I’m not yet ready to assume as much deterioration given the ambiguity of current circumstances and the more-positive tone in the feedback from contacts. I have not yet seen enough evidence to cause me to make a major shift in my growth forecast, particularly for 2013 and 2014.  I’ve adjusted upward my outlook for unemployment, but again, not as much as projected in the June Tealbook, and I don’t see much reason yet to make a material change in my inflation outlook, which is close to the Committee’s target of 2 percent over the forecast horizon.  At this juncture I’m drawing a clear distinction between my outlook projections and my assessment of risks.  I think this is a fair characterization of the approach being taken by the business community as they look to the second half.  The risks are potentially significant, even huge, but I have not factored the most severe speculative downsides into my baseline outlook.  I don’t think we have enough clarity to make wholesale changes to the   outlook.  Nonetheless, the balance of risks for both GDP growth and inflation has shifted to the downside in my view.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker simply presents their analysis of the current economic situation and their own assessment of the outlook.


Passage number 120.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  First, if I could just take a moment, I’d like to say how happy and honored I am to be joining this group, and I look forward to working with all of you. In terms of the outlook, the broad narrative that strikes me is one where, on the one hand, there are signs—not overwhelmingly strong, but nevertheless signs—of the private sector making meaningful progress in moving past some of the underlying fundamental problems that got us into this mess in the first place.  Banks are stronger; credit supply conditions are not improving across the board, but I would say, on balance, they’re improving; and even household balance sheets seem to be strengthening.  On this last point, because the household balance sheet drag on consumption has really been such a central part of the story, I found the data that Michael Palumbo mentioned particularly interesting.  A very related piece that I saw indicated that not only are auto sales strengthening, but in the first quarter of 2012, they were strengthening particularly among the groups with the worst credit ratings, in the highest leveraged counties, that sort of thing.  So, it’s one quarter, and you wouldn’t want to over-read it, but it feels as though there’s a little something going on that’s potentially positive in the private sector.   Now of course, as everybody has observed, weighing very heavily against all of this are both the fiscal headwinds that have been mentioned and the enormous uncertainty associated with the situation in Europe.  This uncertainty made it very hard to think about a modal outlook, and, presumably, in many ways makes the modal outlook less relevant from a decisionmaking perspective when one wants to think about the downside.  Nevertheless, I’ll try to just venture a couple of observations.  First, in the near term—I’m thinking of, through the rest of this year— the expected degree of drag created by Europe seems to me as though it’s reasonably well captured by the Tealbook, and I’m in accord with the Tealbook.  As I understand it, this drag is coming importantly through the appreciation of the dollar and the decline of the stock market.  So I would say I’m pretty much on line with the Tealbook there.  Second, over the medium run—that is to say, 2013–14—not a large difference, but I would say—again, it’s very important to qualify by saying “in the modal outlook”—I have a modestly faster growth projection than the Tealbook baseline for a couple of reasons.  One is that I understand that asset price movements and, in particular, the dollar have played a strong role in the Tealbook forecast.  And in looking at events in markets and the very strong safe-haven effects, it feels as though some of that dollar effect wants to mean-revert—that is to say, it’s a risk premium rather than a random walk type of expectation. So, feeding that through, that would lead me to slightly attenuate the negative effects that the dollar is having on exports, say, in 2013, 2014—not a big effect, but a slight attenuation.  Second, I want to pick up on something that Governor Tarullo just mentioned and others have alluded to as well, about the extent to which we have this strong effect where uncertainty is holding back corporate investment through the specific what you might call option-value-waiting-to-invest channel—that is to say, firms are sitting on positive-NPV projects, but they say to themselves, “Look, let me get past the next six to nine months and see if  the world is going to come to an end, and then I’ll pull the trigger.” If you believe that, it obviously has very negative implications in the shorter run, but has more-ambiguous implications going forward, because, of course, they’re accumulating a backlog of these deferred projects. So if the uncertainty resolves itself in an on-average way—that is to say, neither good nor bad, and we go to what Dan referred to as a chronic muddle scenario—I think you have to, by the logic of this thing, think that there’s going to be a little bit of an upward tick.  Again, that leads me to push my forecast up slightly—and we’re not talking about a big effect—maybe two-or three-tenths of a percentage point on GDP growth relative to the Tealbook.  Qualitatively, I have pretty much the same dismal picture, only a little bit different. I would say I’m also pretty close to the Tealbook on inflation—that is to say, subdued, likely to come in on the low side as opposed to the high side. Let me just make a final observation.  If we take literally this uncertainty-making-you-delay-investment hypothesis, I think it follows that when you’re in an environment with extremely high uncertainty, investment is going to be less responsive to interest rates than it usually is.  This is a point that a couple of other people made or extracted from some of their business contacts, which is, it’s not that things aren’t bad—it’s just that they may be a little less responsive to interest rates than usual.  Think about a manager who is sitting on a project that’s already positive NPV, and the question is not, do you do it or not, now or never. Instead it’s, do you wait six months and see how things resolve.  And the interest rate is not going to play a big role in that. I have no basis for thinking about whether this is a quantitatively big effect or small effect.  However, it does resonate a bit with some of the points that other people are making, and I just suspect it would lead to some attenuation of how much kick one can get out of a policy action on the interest rate at the current time. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their thoughts and observations without contradicting or arguing with anyone else.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 121.
 MR. ROSENGREN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I am supportive of alternative B, though I think there is a strong case to be made for alternative A.  My earlier remarks about the economic outlook imply that we should provide more monetary accommodation, and extending Operation Twist will provide some modest support.  However, I strongly suspect we will need to do more.  I remain very concerned about the international economic and financial outlook.  Because we’re likely to miss on both elements of our mandate through the forecast horizon even without a crisis, ideally I would pursue asset purchase policies that expand our balance sheet.  However, I would support using swaps as the tool of choice if most expect us to remain close to our inflation target but continue to miss significantly on the unemployment target. In terms of swaps, if that is the preferred choice at this meeting, my own preference would be to swap short-term Treasury securities for mortgage-backed securities.  The housing market is showing some tentative signs of improvement, and we should provide additional support for an area that is both interest-sensitive and one of the sectors that has been an impediment to a more robust recovery. It seems to me increasingly likely that Greece will not meet its obligations to Europe, that Spanish banking problems will worsen, and that we and other central banks will need to act more forcefully. I also expect that at that time, we will need to consider 13(3) facilities, with the primary dealer facility the most likely candidate, because I am concerned that broker–dealers will once again find it difficult to obtain short-term wholesale financing should we have another crisis.  We should begin to consider more-creative use of the discount window to focus on where asset spreads are particularly wide. Finally, we need to be prepared should international conditions seriously impair our outlook.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Plosser.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker declares support for alternative B but also states that there is a strong case to be made for alternative A. Additionally, the passage mentions concerns about the international economic and financial outlook and suggests different potential actions that may be necessary in response to this uncertainty.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 122.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m going to divide my comments into two pieces.  I’m going to presume that the Committee will in fact adopt an extension of the MEP to the end of the year, and I’ll comment on how best to craft the statement in light of that decision.  And then I’ll talk about some more-general communication issues.  Mr. Chairman, I have to say, I’ll be deviating somewhat from my prepared remarks in light of the comments that you made about the limitations on our balance sheet tools.  I think those are very importantconsiderations to keep in mind, and it really makes communication even more important than ever. Let me start by supposing that the Committee is going to adopt the extension of the maturity extension program as its policy action today.  I have three recommendations about how the Committee might craft the statement given that decision.  First, in terms of alternatives B′ versus B, as President Plosser just talked about, President Williams, President Plosser, and I circulated a memo describing an approach to rewriting the FOMC statement in a way that establishes a clearer link between the evolution of the economy, the actions being undertaken by the Committee, and what the Committee is trying to accomplish—focusing on this idea of a verbal reaction function.  I think B′ moves in that direction, and certainly we thank the staff and the Board for being responsive to our concerns in this way.  Ultimately, I agree with Bill English that this is a notable change in what we’re doing, and I think that we want to be deliberate about undertaking that change. And, as President Plosser has said, I don’t think B′ gets at what exactly we had in mind.  As I read B′, I don’t feel that it highlights the kinds of changes in the outlook that I heard highlighted around the table yesterday.  If you go to the middle of paragraph 4, the sentence after the semicolon there is a key phrase: “these risks have become somewhat greater since earlier this year.”  We haven’t heard everyone, and everyone has a say, of course, but that’s going to be a key consideration as people think about why they’re adopting this policy action.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The passage contains a disagreement between Mr. Kocherlakota and others regarding the crafting of the FOMC statement. Mr. Kocherlakota suggests an alternative approach, B', and states that he does not feel that it highlights the changes in the outlook that he heard discussed.


Passage number 123.
 MR. LACKER. Where is the semicolon.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The question is asking for clarification on the location of a specific punctuation mark, the semicolon.


Passage number 124.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  If you don’t mind, Mr. Chairman, thank you for clarifying that; it’s good that it’s going to be there.  But I don’t understand why we’re choosing—and maybe others will be able to clarify this for me—in June to describe the details of the program in that way, in the directive, whereas in September, we actually had it in the statement itself. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Well, we can discuss it, but I think the idea is to express the continuity of the program with what we have been doing.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a clarification and request for further explanation.


Passage number 125.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing gratitude and appreciation by saying "Thank you."


Passage number 126.
 MR. TARULLO.  Mr. Chairman.  May I ask Narayana a question. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Certainly.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking for permission to ask a question.


Passage number 127.
 MR. TARULLO.  Narayana, could you repeat the reason why you favor the alternative A language for paragraph 3 over the alternative B language for paragraph 3.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 128.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. When the Committee says they’re going to keep rates low through late 2014, there are multiple ways to interpret it, but I will emphasize two ways. One is that the Committee is saying, the economy is going to be really bad for the next two and a half years, and so we’re going to keep rates low.  Many people think of us as having lots of private information about how the economy is going to evolve, and then their take-away from that is, “Boy, the Fed has this private information that things are going to be bad.”  The other way, which I think is how it’s intended, is that we’re trying to actually provide stimulus to theeconomy to generate a faster recovery. I think a small step to try to correct this perception is to adopt the language in A(3).
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is presenting two different interpretations of the Committee's decision to keep rates low through late 2014. They are not expressing disagreement with anyone else's opinion.


Passage number 129.
 MR. TARULLO. I’m sorry—what’s the specific language difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Cannot determine without the passage. Please provide the passage in order for me to accurately answer the question.


Passage number 130.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA. If you go to the very end of the last sentence of B(3), it says something about “economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run.”  Whereas in A(3) that’s been crossed out, and it says that we’re “maintaining exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate . . . in order to support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, . . .
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is merely pointing out the difference in language between two sections (B(3) and A(3)) of a document without taking a stance or expressing disagreement with either.


Passage number 131.
” MR. TARULLO.  I’m sorry.  So you mean moving what’s the introductory clause of paragraph 3 into the action sentence.  Do you think that’s the difference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. This is evident from the language used, which is polite and clarifying in nature. Mr. Tarullo asks for clarification on a specific point and seeks the speaker's opinion on the matter.


Passage number 132.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That’s correct.  Yes, that’s right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker affirms and agrees with the statement made.


Passage number 133.
 MR. TARULLO.  Okay. I got it.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  You said, just replacing B(3) with A(3).
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The response is a polite acknowledgement and affirmation of understanding.


Passage number 134.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That was what I said, yes. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  May I ask you to think about the following.  We’ve been very clear that our guidance is conditional on how economic conditions evolve.  And A(3) could be interpreted as an unconditional statement, and that may be something people could reflect on that as we go through.  President Williams.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is merely asking the listener to consider a different interpretation or perspective.


Passage number 135.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B.  The economy has slowed, and progress toward closing the large unemployment gap over the next year appears to have stalled.  Furthermore, the drop in oil and other commodity prices and the absence of wage pressures have shifted the outlook for inflation lower.  Thus, we will be falling short on both employment and inflation for years and missing from the same direction each part of our dual  mandate.  And the risks to the outlook for economic activity are overwhelmingly to the downside.  So this situation tilts the balance toward action.  The question is, should we conduct more large-scale asset purchases, as in alternative A, or additional maturity extension, as in B. Maturity extension is directionally correct.  It helps support low long rates, as we’ve already seen.  Now, I agree it won’t do much on its own, and there are inherent limits to how large a move we can make. But it will signal that we’re vigilant and we’re ready and willing to do what is needed.  So for today, I support continuing the maturity extension program envisioned in alternative B. I do have one suggestion for the statement.  In responding to President Kocherlakota’s recommendation, first, let me just say I would actually stay with B(3).  But I do think it is important to provide the rationale for our policy action in our statement.  As we all know, paragraph 1 just describes the data.  Paragraph 2 covers the outlook but does not explain clearly how or why the outlook has changed.  In essence, the policy action is justified in the statement by the addition of the modifier “very” in front of “gradually” and then by replacing “gradually” with “only slowly” in the next sentence.  I find this unnecessarily subtle.  I think, from our discussion, that we have a more fundamental shift in our view about both the economy and about the developments in Europe and financial strains. I propose that the second sentence of paragraph 2 be augmented to summarize the rationale for the change in our outlook, which would obviously set up the change in policy.  So my suggestion is that the sentence would read, “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and greater strains in global financial markets, the Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  To me, this connects the data and our views about what’s going on in Europe to our outlook, which then sets up the policy rationale.  MS. YELLEN.  Could you read that again.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage.


Passage number 136.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Of course.  The sentence would read, “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and greater strains in global financial markets, the Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. If you did that, would you cut the sentence that starts “Furthermore”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a suggestion or proposal made by Mr. Williams.


Passage number 137.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I thought about that.  It repeats that phrase, but I would keep the “Furthermore” sentence as the risk.  It seems, at least in my view, that what people here are talking about and what the Tealbook said is a big part of the change in the outlook, is actually developments in Europe and changes in global financial conditions.  In addition, I would layer on top of that that the data have been somewhat weaker. I was just trying to capture that in my suggestion for B.  Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lacker.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: This passage does not contain any disagreement or contention. Mr. Williams is simply expressing his thoughts and views on the topic at hand.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 138.
 MR. LACKER.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I do not believe that the current situation calls for any further monetary policy action by the Committee.  Headline inflation is certainly falling, driven by the decline in oil prices, and we’re likely to get lower readings on core inflation in the short term as a result of pass-through of energy and import prices.  But I think the dip in inflation will be temporary.  As I noted yesterday, we often see short-run pass-through from energy prices that results in transitory movements in core inflation. Measures of inflation expectations have been well behaved, so at this point, the behavior of inflation, in my view, doesn’t warrant further monetary policy ease.  A more persistent and substantial decline in inflation below our 2 percent target would warrant action aimed at ensuring that inflation returns to target, but that’s not the situation we face today. The labor market clearly has been disappointing.  You used the word “agonizing,” Mr. Chairman, and I think that’s apt.  And I think we all share that sense of excruciating dislocation and loss at what labor markets could have done had they lived up to our expectations a couple of years ago.  But I don’t think we have any options now that are going to make a substantial difference in the path of the unemployment rate without also raising inflation by more than would be desirable and in a way that would ultimately raise the costs of achieving our inflation objective over the longer term.  As a general matter, policy actions that affect labor market outcomes will affect inflation as well. I think that’s just the economics we all understand.  We need to take both effects into account, and we laid out how we do so in our consensus statement in January.  We seem, though, to have adopted a lexicographic approach in which policy depends solely on whether we’re satisfied with the pace at which unemployment is falling.  I don’t think that’s a good approach, and I don’t think it’s helpful to describe our policy as depending entirely on the rate at which unemployment is falling, without reference to inflation. You mentioned a couple of other objectives for this policy move, Mr. Chairman.  Maintaining confidence—with all due respect, I don’t see how our action can have much effect on views about fundamentals or about the likely choices of fiscal policy authorities, either here or abroad.  President Plosser pointed out some adverse effects that this policy action could have on confidence in us and on our credibility.  And President Kocherlakota pointed out ways in which this policy action could damp expectations about future growth.  You also cited showing the Fed as engaged; that’s something President Williams cited as well.  The flip side of that is  that it encourages people to believe that we believe that we have far more effect on the real economy than we really do.  So I think the appropriate stance now would be to wait and watch for evidence that inflation expectations are likely to erode, or that there’s a shortfall in inflation below target that’s likely to be persistent. If further easing is warranted, an extension of the maturity extension program would not be my preferred tool.  I think that the theory behind the interest rate effects of the MEP is tenuous and the empirical evidence of such effects is unconvincing.  And I question whether any policy action that attempts to work through lowering longer-term risk-free rates can be expected to have much effect in the current environment. Moreover, this policy raises the question of, why not ask Mary Miller to do it.  Should we want to provide further stimulus, I think we would need to either increase aggregate reserve balances or change banks’ incentives to hold reserves by changing the interest rate on reserves. And one final note: I have pushed back my expected date for the funds rate liftoff, but it’s still well earlier than late 2014.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. This is evident when Mr. Lacker disagrees with the current situation calling for further monetary policy action by the Committee. He believes that the behavior of inflation doesn't warrant further monetary policy ease and that the appropriate stance now would be to wait and watch for evidence of eroding inflation expectations or a persistent shortfall in inflation below target. He also disagrees with the effectiveness of the maturity extension program and questions whether any policy action to lower longer-term risk-free rates would have much effect in the current environment. Additionally, he disagrees with the idea of asking Mary Miller to provide further stimulus and pushes back his expected date for the funds rate liftoff.


Passage number 139.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I will support alternative B.  As I said yesterday, my own outlook is more optimistic over the forecast horizon than that in the Tealbook.  I agree that the balance of risks to growth is to the downside, but I’m not yet convinced that the environment has deteriorated enough to justify more-aggressive action at this time. I view an MEP extension as an acknowledgment of some change in the outlook and a shift in the balance of risk.  With the risks elevated and weighted to the downside, I think it’s appropriate to signal that we are highly attentive to developments and unwilling to remove any accommodation at this point.  I view the extension of the MEP as serving this purpose.  I don’t expect that extending the MEP will have a lot of sustained incremental impact in isolation. If the  situation worsens, in all likelihood it will be because of developments in Europe and the global economy. In such circumstances, safe-haven flows will likely put more pressure on long-term rates than MEP purchases. Because I’m supporting this policy action more for reasons of posture maintenance than because of any expectations that it will turn things around, I actually like the way the decision is presented in the statement as a continuation of policy.  I hope it suggests some amount of conditionality and leaves open the possibility of scaling back or suspending the program if the economy surprises us to the upside. Regarding alternative B′, I do not favor moving to the statement structure of B′ at this time. I’m sympathetic to what the alternative format is trying to capture and accomplish, and could support going in that direction at some point.  But as unsettled as markets are now, I’m worried that any nontrivial change in the structure of the statement would create more noise than clarity. I’d like to play it safe for the moment and to stick with the alternative B formulation and defer something along the lines of B′ to a later date. Regarding the last paragraph, the question is to include it or not to include it.  I’m inclined to include it, but I will point out that it creates the issue of whether to repeat it, revise it, or pull it—and under what circumstances we would do that and what would be the interpretation of whatever we do with this paragraph in future meetings.  Every time we put in something like this, it creates the follow-on questions in the minds of the market. Still, I think the situation does call for comment, and so I will support inclusion of the last paragraph.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not have any clear contention or disagreement. The speaker, Mr. Lockhart, is expressing his own opinions and preferences on different policy actions, but there is no direct conflict or contradiction with others in the passage.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 140.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I don’t want to wait till my turn to respond to one thing that you said, President Fisher, about leaks.  I think it’s really dangerous to cast aspersions like  that on the Desk or other people on the Committee. It’s completely reasonable that the Wall Street Journal can look at the same set of evidence that we look at and reach the same conclusion that we’re going to reach; there’s nothing surprising about that.  I’m not saying that leaks never occur, but I don’t believe you can conclude that because the Wall Street Journal concludes something similar to what we conclude.  They’re looking at the same set of information that we’re looking at.  They’ve studied how we’ve behaved in the past. It’s completely logical for them to reach the same conclusion that we’re reaching without there being any leaks whatsoever. So I think that’s really dangerous to make statements like that.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. The speaker disagrees with President Fisher's statement about leaks and suggests that it is dangerous to cast aspersions on the Desk or other people on the Committee. They argue that it is reasonable for the Wall Street Journal to reach the same conclusions based on the same information without there being any leaks. Therefore, there is disagreement in the passage.


Passage number 141.
 MR. FISHER. I’m sure others feel the same way, Vice Chairman Dudley.  I’m just making the point that when we talk about market expectations, we should consider what affects the American people over the long term and not be conditioned by market expectations.  But I did not mean to cast aspersions.  I just worry that this process goes on.  And I see Governor Tarullo getting all upset.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher expresses his concern about considering the long-term effects on the American people rather than being influenced by market expectations, but he also clarifies that he did not mean to cast aspersions or offend anyone. Governor Tarullo getting upset does not necessarily indicate disagreement, as it could be a personal reaction rather than a response to Mr. Fisher's statement.


Passage number 142.
 MR. TARULLO.  Richard, how could you say you didn’t mean to cast aspersions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.

Explanation: The passage does not demonstrate any contention or disagreement. It is a question asked by Mr. Tarullo to Richard.


Passage number 143.
 MR. FISHER. But let me finish my sentence.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


Passage number 144.
 MR. TARULLO.  You accused somebody here of leaking.  You didn’t identify who it was, but you said there was a leak.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not show any contention or disagreement. It simply states that someone accused another person of leaking information without revealing the identity of the accused.


Passage number 145.
 MR. FISHER.  What I’m saying is, I think we should work extremely hard to preserve every option that is debated at this table, and I have just noticed that this has been more intensely covered than I have seen in my seven years of sitting at this table.  Everybody in this room is a decent person.  I’m not casting any aspersions against anybody in this room.  I’m just saying that if we can—in every way possible, however we do it—we should try to preserve the options to be debated at this table, and then not use the argument that markets expect us to do X or Y.  What isleading the markets to expect that.  I haven’t seen this broad-based discussion that we are having in the speeches.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing the need to preserve all options for debate and is not casting any aspersions against anyone in the room. The speaker also questions the argument that markets expect certain actions without a broad-based discussion.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 146.
 MR. TARULLO.  You haven’t seen it in the speeches.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is contention or disagreement in the passage. The word "haven't" implies that the speaker, Mr. Tarullo, disagrees or disputes the claim made in the speeches.


Passage number 147.
 MR. EVANS.  You haven’t seen suggestions in the speeches and in the interviews.  I get commentary from our staff all the time about what people are saying, and others have mentioned MEP as a possible option here. That’s all it takes to get that discussion going.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that suggestions and discussions have been initiated by comments from staff and others, specifically mentioning the possibility of MEP as an option.


Passage number 148.
 MR. FISHER.  Well, they are all possible options, but zeroing in on this— CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Fisher is acknowledging that all the options are possible and indicating a focus on one particular option.


Passage number 149.
 MR. FISHER.  Let me just summarize this way, Mr. Chairman.  I apologize if I’ve given offense.  I worry about the phenomenon, and I see it increasing.  We’ve talked about this before.  Let’s just do our best to make sure that we give out as little as possible so we don’t condition the market, in case we decide to do something else and therefore disappoint the market. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. The speaker is expressing their concern and suggesting a cautious approach to avoid potential market disappointment. There is no conflicting viewpoint or argument presented.


Passage number 150.
 MR. FISHER.  And I apologize again for giving offense. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. In this passage, there is no contention or disagreement. Mr. Fisher apologizes for giving offense, indicating a desire to resolve any conflict or disagreement. President Evans's response is not provided in the passage to confirm agreement or disagreement.


Passage number 151.
 MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I think yesterday Governor Tarullo made some comment about how it would be nice if people didn’t always come with prepared statements.  I can guarantee you, I don’t have anything like that.  Of course, having said that, my message won’t sound very different to those who have heard it before, but there are two new Governors.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply stating that they do not have a prepared statement and that their message will not be different from what others have heard before.


Passage number 152.
 MR. POWELL.  We’ve heard it, too.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Powell simply acknowledges that he has also heard something mentioned previously.


Passage number 153.
 MR. BULLARD.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  As you know, I’m not supposed to come right after President Evans.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not establish any form of contention or disagreement.


Passage number 154.
  [Laughter] MR. KOCHERLOKTA.  That’s why I sit between them. It’s my role on the Committee, actually.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a light-hearted comment about the speaker's role on the committee.


Passage number 155.
 MR. STEIN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I support alternative B. I’m essentially in agreement with the staff’s forecast, which has us making disappointingly slow progress on output and on unemployment and which sees inflation as subdued, likely coming below our 2 percent target.  So it seems to me that both sides of our mandate point pretty clearly toward a need for further accommodation.  On top of that, there are the potentially severe downside risks associated with the current situation in Europe.  I framed it, Mr. Chairman, as you did, which is, I started by asking myself, if we were away from the zero lower bound, what would we do.  And I clearly say, I think it’s not a close call.  I would be unambiguously in favor of easing. At the same time, I, too, find the analysis to be less straightforward when we have to provide that further accommodation by quantitative means—that is to say, by buying more long-term bonds.  This is both because I think the further stimulative benefits of doing so at this time, while positive, are likely to be quite small and because I feel that there are a variety of potential costs and simply raw uncertainties—and here I would echo what President Pianalto said— associated with the bond purchases that at least I, in my own mind, have not fully come to grips with.  A number of these have already been enumerated, and I won’t go over them again.  I did want to flag one particular cost that I thought was possibly relevant and which looms larger when we’re in the interest rate environment that we’re in.  That is to say, the 10-year Treasury was, as of this morning, I think, about 1.62 and, as Brian described yesterday, term premiums—expected returns on these Treasuries—are near at least recent-history lows and are something like 150 basis points below their norms over the last 15 or so years.  Here’s a very gut-level way to say it: It just feels strange to me to want to be buying an asset—in this case, long-term bonds—when its price is abnormally high relative to its expected cash flows and when, in at least some sense of the word, we would be seeking to push that price further away from fundamental value rather than closer.  And note that this is the opposite of what we did in QE1, when the Fed was effectively acting as a marketmaker of last resort in MBS.  Spreads were abnormally wide, and in some sense, you could say that we were moving prices closer to where they would be in an idealized, frictionless world. Just to push the logic a little bit further, you could imagine a hypothetical situation in which we kept buying MBS to the point where somehow the spread on MBS was negative relative to Treasuries.  Presumably this would have some stimulative effect, but one might at the same time worry that there are some allocative distortions beneath that stimulative effect. Now, this is all, admittedly, very loose.  And let me see if I can be more precise and characterize what I think the nature of the costs might be in this particular case.  One story that has been repeated around this table over the last couple of days for why we have such strongly negative term premiums in long-term Treasuries is that right now, they’re serving as a safe haven for investors who want, in some sense, absolute surety on their investment.  They want to be able to park it in a place where they really don’t have to worry about it.  You might say, in some sense, that these investors are getting a flow of benefits from holding long-term Treasuries—that is, in a way, it’s money-like.  In the same way that you accept a reduced return on currency, you accept a reduced return on long-term Treasuries. So if this interpretation is right—if some of the negative term premium that we see is in some sense a money type of premium—it follows that if by buying in these long-term Treasuries, if you reduce the supply of this valuable money-like   commodity, you’re imposing some kind of a welfare cost.  Now, I don’t want to overstate this.  I’m not prepared to make any kind of quantitative estimate of the magnitude of this welfare cost.  But I think as a conceptual matter, it belongs on the table.  And I would also note that it’s interesting that in other contexts Fed policy has been sensitive to precisely this sort of consideration.  Earlier on—2007, 2008—it was short-term Treasuries that were essentially the scarce money-like commodity.  They were on special, their yields were below zero, and policy responded to that.  I interpret the TSLF as an attempt to lean against this scarcity issue. Having raised these concerns, which I think belong on the table, let me try to keep them in perspective.  As I said, I do believe that there is a cost side associated with further bond purchases, and it’s a somewhat unknowable, at least to me, particularly given where interest rates and term premiums are. This would make me uncomfortable at this point with the more aggressive alternative A.  At the same time, I think the argument that I’ve made is, again, a tentative one, and because I’m not in a position to flesh it out quantitatively, I don’t want to take it too far.  With respect to alternative B, it seems to me that the incremental costs, along these lines, of the maturity extension program are likely to be modest, as are, in my view, the direct stimulative benefits.  And so, as a number of others have mentioned—President Lockhart, I think you made this point—this leaves the indirect signaling effects of alternative B as perhaps its most important element. I do think it is very important that markets understand that the Fed is on the job and stands ready to step up in other ways, perhaps with some of the other tools that we have available, if the situation in Europe deteriorates badly.  To the extent that going with alternative B is helpful in communicating that message might be its biggest virtue at this point in time. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Governor Powell.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No

Explanation: There is no clear contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their support for alternative B and discussing the potential costs and benefits of further bond purchases. The speaker also mentions the importance of signaling the Fed's readiness to step up in response to the situation in Europe.


Passage number 156.
  MR. POWELL.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I’m going to support alternative B as well. I have struggled with the nagging thought that there may be a plausible alternative, which is to hold off for now, wait and see how the economy and the situation in Europe evolve, and perhaps keep our remaining powder dry in case there’s a need for coordinated intervention.  I do share many of the concerns raised around the table.  Briefly, to start back at the beginning, I am somebody who does see a substantial output gap, although I’m mindful of the history and of the dangers of relying on contemporaneous estimates of it.  Nonetheless, I believe that the chances are that there’s a substantial output gap now. However, I harbor real doubts about the efficacy of further balance sheet actions to close that.  So the argument is, why not try.  And that leads you straight to the issues that the Chairman raised succinctly at the beginning, which I continue to struggle with, particularly the thought that we’re approaching the limits of asset purchases. I note that there is an article on FT Alphaville this morning talking about illiquidity and that being a bar to the MEP.  I mentioned this to Brian beforehand, and they’re far ahead of Alphaville; I understand that.  But just to echo what President Pianalto and Governor Tarullo said, I’d personally like to understand those limits much better.  To the extent it’s possible to be more precise about what they are, I would love to do that.  But perhaps that’s an argument for using further quantitative easing if we have to, beyond the MEP, as more of a defensive weapon going forward.  As I weigh the arguments against extending the MEP, in the end, I don’t find them carrying the day, mostly because of the presence of significant financial market stress and the very real threat that it could get a lot worse.  This is a particularly bad time to withdraw accommodation.  And I agree with what Governor Stein said—it’s important that the Fed send the signal that we do have additionalammunition and we’re prepared to use it.  I also would say that what is proposed is a relatively small program.  It doesn’t cost us much to extend the program and let events clarify themselves. Finally, it’s hard for me to say whether this action will have much of an effect on longer-term rates or produce the forecasted reduction in unemployment or the slight increase in inflation.  It does seem fairly likely to me, however, that it would produce more-accommodative financial conditions, by which I mean lower risk premiums, increased liquidity, and reduced risk aversion at the margin—in the markets and, perhaps ultimately, in the real economy.  So, on that basis, I find myself in support of alternative B. Finally, I join the chorus of those urging the non-inclusion of paragraph 5.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Vice Chairman.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not have any contention or disagreement. The speaker expresses their support for alternative B and acknowledges some concerns raised by others. However, they ultimately agree with the Chairman's position and provide their own reasoning for supporting alternative B.


Passage number 157.
 MR. ENGLISH.  Yes, that’s right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. That’s not trivial.  And even though term premiums are very low and interest rates are very low, this program should work through a variety of channels, including other asset prices and spreads, and should have some beneficial effect on financial conditions.  I have some trouble with the argument that Europe has done the work for us.  It’s true that European stresses have lowered our Treasury yields, but they have, at the same time, lowered stock prices, increased volatility, increased spreads, and strengthened the dollar.  If you put all of that together, you get an overall financial impulse that is a negative rather than a positive for economic growth.  I take many of the useful comments around the room very seriously, and I think we should consider ourselves in a watchful mode, trying to evaluate both the underlying situation in the economy and the global risks that we are currently facing.  With respect to the language—Steve, today has been pretty calm, I think, in Europe.  Is that correct.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is expressing their own opinion and discussing different aspects of the situation, but there is no direct disagreement or argument with anyone else.


Passage number 158.
 MR. KAMIN.  Yes.  The sovereign spreads for Italy and Spain, having fallen yesterday, have fallen again today, at least as of this morning.  The Greek government looks as though it’s on the cusp of putting together its coalition government.  So it does seem as though the markets are calm for now. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  I think I would therefore, along with a number of you, strike the bracketed paragraph at the end of the statement.  This is something that we might consider doing, for example, in conjunction with other central banks should the situation arise that stresses intensify. Let me quickly take up a couple of other suggestions.  President Kocherlakota advocated Governor Raskin’s suggestion on substituting A(3).  As I mentioned, I have a bit of concern that this would be interpreted as completely unconditional.  And I wonder if it would be acceptable for us to work on this over the intermeeting period to try to get something with this spirit, but that captures the idea that should conditions change, this would not be an unconditional commitment. Is that all right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply discussing market conditions and making suggestions for changes.


Passage number 159.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  That sounds very reasonable. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  The other suggestion was the one President Williams had on the language in paragraph 2.  Perhaps we could just see if there’s broad interest in this or not.  Just to read it again—you can correct me, President Williams.  This is in alternative B, paragraph 2, second sentence—the one that now begins, “The Committee expects economic growth . . .”  As I have it, the introductory phrase would be, “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and greater strains in global financial markets, the Committee expectseconomic growth to remain moderate . . .” and I would definitely take out the “downside risks” sentence in that case because it’s purely repetitive on the increased risks. That phrase is more descriptive.  On the other hand, it changes the formula.  We’d have to figure out how to update it next time, et cetera.  Anyone want to speak for or against that change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is simply suggesting a change and asking for input from others.


Passage number 160.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. You’re taking out the “Furthermore” sentence, then. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Don’t you think, if we’re already saying “greater strains in global financial markets . . .”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The second statement is simply asking for an opinion or perspective on a specific idea, without expressing disagreement or opposition.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 161.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I think that’s going to be weird to take it out at this particular meeting, given that the strains have actually intensified since the last meeting. People will have trouble parsing why we’re taking it out. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes.

Explanation: The phrase "People will have trouble parsing why we’re taking it out" suggests that there is potential disagreement or controversy regarding the decision to remove something.


Passage number 162.
 MR. POWELL.  We just moved it. MS. DUKE.  Moved it up. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  How about, “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and with global financial markets continuing to pose significant downside risks, . . .”. Would that be okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The exchange between Mr. Powell and Ms. Duke suggests a conversation where they are discussing a possible change in wording or phrasing, but it does not indicate any disagreement or conflict.


Passage number 163.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. Yes. If you phrase it almost the same way, then I think you can. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  President Williams, did you hear what I said.  Was that okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 164.
 MR. WILLIAMS. The point I was trying to make was that the greater strains in global financial markets are part of the outlook in our baseline forecast. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Right.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage is a statement made by Mr. Williams, explaining his point about the greater strains in global financial markets being part of their baseline forecast. There is no apparent contention or disagreement present.


Passage number 165.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Then, in addition to that there are downside risks.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply states that in addition to something else, there are downside risks.


Passage number 166.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  They are slightly different things.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It is a statement that acknowledges the distinction between two things but does not express any conflicting opinions or viewpoints.


Passage number 167.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  I see these as being both in play and both important parts of our decision.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating that both factors are relevant and should be taken into consideration when making a decision.


Passage number 168.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  So you would keep the second sentence, the “Furthermore” sentence. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. At a minimum, can we at least change the phrase “greater strains” so that it’s not identical to the other.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is suggesting a change to the phrase "greater strains" but does not express any disagreement with the second sentence or any other part of the passage.


Passage number 169.
 MR. EVANS.  What about “global economic developments in that first part”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The passage only mentions a topic of discussion ("global economic developments in that first part"), but it does not indicate any contention or disagreement related to it.


Passage number 170.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  Or “tighter financial conditions”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

This statement does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply mentions the phrase "tighter financial conditions."


Passage number 171.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  “Tighter financial conditions” would be appropriate. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and tighter conditions in financial markets, . . .”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The statement does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It simply suggests that "tighter financial conditions" would be appropriate given the recent slowdown in domestic demand and tighter conditions in financial markets.


Passage number 172.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Just “tighter financial conditions.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  “Tighter financial conditions”.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The phrase "tighter financial conditions" does not represent contention or disagreement. It is a neutral statement describing a certain condition.


Passage number 173.
 MR. WILLIAMS.  “Tighter financial conditions.” CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do you feel comfortable with that change.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The person asking the question is simply seeking the opinion or comfort level of the individual being addressed regarding tighter financial conditions.


Passage number 174.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Could you repeat that again, please. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and tighter financial conditions, . . .”—and then we would go on—“. . . the Committee expects economic growth,” et cetera. President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not contain contention or disagreement. It is a request for clarification.


Passage number 175.
 MR. LOCKHART. Can we really support to the general public that the lower 10-year bond rate, combined with zero-lower-bound interest rates and a fluctuating equity market,  constitutes tighter conditions. I don’t know if that’s going to resonate with everyone out there. We’re really referring to conditions that are related to Europe, it strikes me. MS. DUKE.  How about “more volatile” or something that gets to the uncertainty.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Both Mr. Lockhart and Ms. Duke are discussing potential alternative ways to describe the current economic conditions, but there is no indication of disagreement or argument between them.


Passage number 176.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Their source may be Europe, but the conditions are germane here. What do Brian and Nellie think about this.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The sentence simply states that their source may be Europe, but the conditions are relevant or applicable to the current situation. The thoughts or opinions of Brian and Nellie are not mentioned in the passage.


Passage number 177.
 MR. SACK. Given the movement in equities, other risk prices, and the strengthening of the dollar, it seems that financial conditions broadly are tighter.  Yes, the fall in yields is a partial offset to that, but we think the net effect is clearly tighter financial conditions.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. The passage does not indicate any contention or disagreement. It presents a statement and then provides a further explanation to support that statement.


Passage number 178.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. I see Nellie nodding in the back as well. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Was that an authorized nod. [Laughter] MS. LIANG.  I agree with what Brian said. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Okay. Why don’t we take a straw poll on this particular language—unless there are further suggestions or comments.  [No response]  How many people would like to make the change.  All participants can participate.  Three, four, five, six, seven, eight…  How many are against. Then, it looks as though the change carries.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. This is indicated by the lack of response and the majority of participants in favor of the proposed change.


Passage number 179.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  By a nose.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: The phrase "by a nose" is typically used in horse racing to describe a close victory. It does not indicate any form of disagreement or contention.


Passage number 180.
 MR. TARULLO. Mr. Chairman, what do you want to do.  Do you have a preference. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Do I have a preference.  I would have had a preference to have 15 more minutes to think more about the wording.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply asking if the chairman has a preference and then expressing their own preference for more time to think about the wording.


Passage number 181.
  [Laughter] VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  We do have 15 more minutes.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No.


Passage number 182.
 MR. TARULLO.  We do have time.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No, there is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Tarullo is stating a fact about having time, and there is no opposing view mentioned.


Passage number 183.
 MR. POWELL.  If it’s not a strong preference, we shouldn’t do it.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is expressing their opinion that if a preference is not strong, it shouldn't be acted upon.


Passage number 184.
  It’s too complicated MR. TARULLO.  We should get comfortable with this, one way or the other.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

There is no explicit contention or disagreement evident in the statement provided. The speaker simply expresses the idea that the matter at hand (presumably something complicated) should be dealt with and understood, regardless of the specific approach.


Passage number 185.
 MR. FISHER.  Mr. Chairman, you have to express it, so what’s your preference.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. Mr. Fisher seems to be asking for the chairman's preference, without any indication of disagreement or debate.


Passage number 186.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes, you have to explain what it means.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is simply stating that someone has to explain what something means.


Passage number 187.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Well, the Tarullo rule would say, no, don’t make the change because it’s such a close call, right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I’m really okay with it either way.  Does anyone have any strong objection. [No response] All right. So we keep the first sentence as it stands.  The second sentence begins, “With somewhat less recent momentum in domestic demand and tighter financial conditions, . . .
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. The speaker is open to either option and there is no objection from anyone else.


Passage number 188.
” MR. WILLIAMS.  “It might be easier to say “some tightening in financial conditions.” It might read better. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. How about, “and some tightening”—I-N-G—“in financial conditions, the Committee expects economic growth . . .”  Okay.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. 

Explanation: There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Williams is suggesting a small modification to the language used, but there is no argument or disagreement between individuals.


Passage number 189.
 MR. LOCKHART.  Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Yes.  President Lockhart.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply states that Mr. Lockhart is addressing the chairman.


Passage number 190.
 MR. LOCKHART.  I’d make the argument that we seem to be responding to relatively short-term changes. Various elements of what we’re calling tightening, like the dollar, could turn around quickly, and we’re connecting that to a view that economic growth is going to remain moderate over coming quarters.  That’s a long time to pin on this short-term tightening, which could change dramatically depending on circumstances.  Quite frankly, I don’t see that it connects very well.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage does not contain any contention or disagreement. It is a statement made by Mr. Lockhart expressing his personal opinion about the connection between short-term tightening and future economic growth.


Passage number 191.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY. How much has the trajectory of financial conditions changed in the Tealbook forecast, for example.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. This passage is asking for an example to support the claim made in the question. It does not contain any contention or disagreement.


Passage number 192.
MR. WILCOX.  That’s quite a big portion of our adjustment in the economic outlook.  The dollar is worth several tenths on our adjustment to economic growth this year and next.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. It simply states a fact about the value of the dollar and its impact on economic growth.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 193.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  I thought that Steve Kamin’s view on Europe was that this was going to be a cloud for an extended period of time.  You could be right that conditions could change on a dime, but I think that the baseline view is that this is going to be around for a while. Is that fair, Steve.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes, there is disagreement in the passage. The speaker acknowledges that there could be a possibility of conditions changing quickly, but they have a different viewpoint than Steve Kamin regarding the duration of the situation in Europe.


Passage number 194.
 MR. KAMIN.  Yes, that’s absolutely right.  One issue is that, in some sense, our outlook is predicated not just on financial conditions in Europe being stressed but also on them getting more stressed.  And that is something that would not be communicated by the sentence in the statement, nor would we want it to be communicated in the statement.  Another, minor issue is that if there’s a follow-up question—well, what are these financial conditions that have gotten worse. Then you’d have to cite the higher dollar, and that is a little problematic, too, but it can be dealt with.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in the passage. The speaker is simply stating some potential issues with the statement and acknowledging that they can be addressed.


****************DISAGREEMENT DETECTED*******************Passage number 195.
 VICE CHAIRMAN DUDLEY.  Right. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Anyone want to change their vote. MS. DUKE.  Yes.  I was in favor of it, but with this much discomfort with it, I think I’d be more comfortable leaving it alone. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. There’s the status quo rule.  All right.  Thank you.  I’m sorry for the diversion.  We gave it a serious look.  So I think we’re ready.  Alternative B, I think, is unchanged as written, right. MS. DANKER.  Yes. But no paragraph 5. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  No paragraph 5—correct.  MS. DANKER.  Okay.  This vote is on alternative B—the statement as written, no paragraph 5—and the associated directive. Chairman Bernanke   Yes Vice Chairman Dudley Yes Governor Duke Yes President Lacker No President Lockhart Yes President Pianalto Yes Governor Powell Yes Governor Raskin Yes Governor Stein Yes Governor Tarullo Yes President Williams Yes Governor Yellen Yes CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  Thank you.  Brian will just say a few words about our operational plans for the MEP.  Very quickly, while he’s distributing the handout, let me just remind you that the next meeting is July 31– August 1.  That’s Tuesday and Wednesday.  There will be a press conference today at 2:15, and the Special Library will have a screen, if you are so inclined.  After we finish today, there is coffee available, and then lunch will be available in half an hour or so.  And let me note that we had earlier on talked about having a special topic on rules-based policy with and without the zero lower bound at this meeting.  That was delayed because the work wasn’t complete, and we will now do that in July.  President Kocherlakota.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: Yes. There is disagreement in the passage. Governor Lacker voted against alternative B, while the rest of the individuals listed voted in favor.


Passage number 196.
 MR. KOCHERLAKOTA.  Yes.  Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to second the comments that I’ve heard around the table about exploration of our remaining tools, their costs and benefits.  Everything I have heard leads me to believe that we’re close to the end of our balance sheet tools.  So I think that communication should be part of that panoply of tools that are under consideration. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We will do that.  President Fisher.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No. There is no contention or disagreement in this passage. Mr. Kocherlakota is expressing agreement with the comments made by others about exploring remaining tools and suggesting that communication should be considered as one of those tools. President Fisher responds with "We will do that," indicating agreement.


Passage number 197.
 MR. FISHER. First, Mr. Chairman, I want to say to Vice Chairman Dudley that I will never refrain from expressing my views at this table, but I will be very conscious about the honey-fication of my comments in public.  So thank you for your comments.  I wanted to second what Narayana just said, because Vice Chairman Dudley started yesterday on this point about our contingency planning, not just on monetary policy but also on stability measures. I heard Governor Duke, Governor Tarullo, Governor Stein, and others—just now, Narayana—on it.  As you know, I’ve spoken about contingency planning often, and I would like to see us flesh that out as much as possible and focus on the tradeoffs that Governor Tarullo mentioned in terms of the cost–benefit analysis. I think that’s a very high-priority item for us.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE.  We are looking at the discount window option here at the Board.  What that means exactly is not entirely clear, but something along the lines of the Bank of England’s initiative.  The Desk should be able to give us some estimates of how much space there is for other kinds of actions, and we need to address this in the intermeeting period.  Okay.  Anyone else.  [No response]  Brian.
Does the passage contain contention or disagreement? Response from the model: No


